After this killing, the FBI resumed a search for an anti-abortion conspiracy.
``Even if they want to go to shopping, one of us will accompany them,''  Bandaratillaka said.
It is not one that moves voters, but it is vital to both parties because  it helps determine their relative strength in Congress.
He said Stepinac's figure summed up ``the whole tragedy which befell the Croatian people and Europe in the course of this century marked by the three great evils of fascism, national socialism and communism.''
The radical group  Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility Saturday for the market bombing  and vowed more attacks to try to block the new peace accord.
Many of the horses are suffering stress  from the journey here, but those from Asian countries are adjusting  faster than those from cold countries, Siraya said.
IOC rules forbid bidding cities from giving members or their relatives anything valued greater than $150; however, IOC member Marc Hodler alleges widespread corruption.
``I said, `You don't have to do this,' ''  recalled Schwarz, who was with him at the time.
Bacteria can release products that cause white blood cells to release  enormous amounts of nitric oxide.
And although Democrats are hoping that the efforts of congressional Republicans to impeach President Clinton may spur Democrats to the polls in a kind of backlash, so far the president's problems have not helped matters and could lower turnout among Democratic voters.
Stormy Philippines 	Supertyphoon Babs, armed with winds over 150 mph, slammed into the Philippine island of Luzon on Wednesday.
``It may be that we are looking at  a consolidation on the world level that looked like the consolidation  on the national level 100 years ago.''
Concrete decisions on solving their longterm plight have taken a back seat to the immediate need to restore water and electricity and provide temporary shelter.
We do things by the book, and we're not  going to cut any corners even if it means just shaving a second or  two.''
U.S. officials conveyed  their concerns to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and urged  that Xu and Qin be released immediately.
Gov. Pedro Rosello instead wants federal block grants that, combined with money from Puerto Rico's local budget, would subsidize more expensive cement homes located out of harm's way.
P.W. BOTHA  During the period that he presided as head of state (1978-1989) according  to submissions made to and findings made by the Commission, gross  violations of human rights and other unlawful acts were perpetrated  on a wide scale by members of the South African Defense Force, including:  The deliberate unlawful killing and attempted killing of persons opposed  to the policies of the Government, within and outside South Africa.
Hun  Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians'  safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance  with the laws in force.''
Tutu said that more than 400 people had been notified that they would be implicated to give them a chance to respond.
``There is so much rumor and counter-rumor coming from out there that we don't know what to think.
Even U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan has joined the argument,  warning in a speech at Harvard recently that ``if globalization is  to succeed, it must succeed for poor and rich alike.
The process of helping the victims with scholarships and other necessary aid goes on, although it will not be enough.
``To the extent  that this potential merger is the result of Microsoft's actions with  these exclusive contracts and other actions,'' he said, ``it is unfortunate  to see the disappearance of a firm like Netscape, the brightest, newest  star.''
I have never met Mr. bin Laden, I have never spoken with  him, I have never had any financial or business relationship with  him, nor knowingly with anyone acting as his agent.''
Michaels played Don McLean's eight-and-a-half-minute-long ``American Pie,'' giving him time to suck up water with a shop vacuum.
On Oct. 29, an assailant tried to ram an explosives-rigged car into a bus carrying Jewish schoolchildren in the Gaza Strip.
Foster said Cathay is ``taking a very close look'' at PAL but declined to comment what they have found or what stake they are considering.