Prospects were dim for resolution of the political crisis in Cambodia in October 1998.
Prime Minister Hun Sen insisted that talks take place in Cambodia while opposition leaders Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy, fearing arrest at home, wanted them abroad.
King Sihanouk declined to chair talks in either place.
A U.S. House resolution criticized Hun Sen's regime while the opposition tried to cut off his access to loans.
But in November the King announced a coalition government with Hun Sen heading the executive and Ranariddh leading the parliament.
Left out, Sam Rainsy sought the King's assurance of Hun Sen's promise of safety and freedom for all politicians.
Cambodian prime minister Hun Sen rejects demands of 2 opposition parties for talks in Beijing after failing to win a 2/3 majority in recent elections.
Sihanouk refuses to host talks in Beijing.
Opposition parties ask the Asian Development Bank to stop loans to Hun Sen's government.
CCP defends Hun Sen to the US Senate.
FUNCINPEC refuses to share the presidency.
Hun Sen and Ranariddh eventually form a coalition at summit convened by Sihanouk.
Hun Sen remains prime minister, Ranariddh is president of the national assembly, and a new senate will be formed.
Opposition leader Rainsy left out.
He seeks strong assurance of safety should he return to Cambodia.
Cambodia King Norodom Sihanouk praised formation of a coalition of the Countries top two political parties, leaving strongman Hun Sen as Prime Minister and opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh president of the National Assembly.
The announcement comes after months of bitter argument following the failure of any party to attain the required quota to form a government.
Opposition leader Sam Rainey was seeking assurances that he and his party members would not be arrested if they return to Cambodia.
Rainey had been accused by Hun Sen of being behind an assassination attempt against him during massive street demonstrations in September.
Cambodian elections, fraudulent according to opposition parties, gave the CPP of Hun Sen a scant majority but not enough to form its own government.
Opposition leaders fearing arrest, or worse, fled and asked for talks outside the country.
Han Sen refused.
The UN found evidence of rights violations by Hun Sen prompting the US House to call for an investigation.
The three-month governmental deadlock ended with Han Sen and his chief rival, Prince Norodom Ranariddh sharing power.
Han Sen guaranteed safe return to Cambodia for all opponents but his strongest critic, Sam Rainsy, remained wary.
Chief of State King Norodom Sihanouk praised the agreement.
Cambodian leader Hun Sen on Friday rejected opposition parties' demands  for talks outside the country, accusing them of trying to ``internationalize''  the political crisis.
Government and opposition parties have asked  King Norodom Sihanouk to host a summit meeting after a series of post-election  negotiations between the two opposition groups and Hun Sen's party  to form a new government failed.
Opposition leaders Prince Norodom  Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy, citing Hun Sen's threats to arrest opposition  figures after two alleged attempts on his life, said they could not  negotiate freely in Cambodia and called for talks at Sihanouk's residence  in Beijing.
Hun Sen, however, rejected that.
``I would like to make  it clear that all meetings related to Cambodian affairs must be conducted  in the Kingdom of Cambodia,'' Hun Sen told reporters after a Cabinet  meeting on Friday.
``No-one should internationalize Cambodian affairs.
It is detrimental to the sovereignty of Cambodia,'' he said.
Hun Sen's  Cambodian People's Party won 64 of the 122 parliamentary seats in  July's elections, short of the two-thirds majority needed to form  a government on its own.
Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have charged that  Hun Sen's victory in the elections was achieved through widespread  fraud.
They have demanded a thorough investigation into their election  complaints as a precondition for their cooperation in getting the  national assembly moving and a new government formed.
Hun Sen said  on Friday that the opposition concerns over their safety in the country  was ``just an excuse for them to stay abroad.''
Both Ranariddh and  Sam Rainsy have been outside the country since parliament was ceremonially  opened on Sep. 24.
Sam Rainsy and a number of opposition figures have  been under court investigation for a grenade attack on Hun Sen's Phnom  Penh residence on Sep. 7.
Hun Sen was not home at the time of the  attack, which was followed by a police crackdown on demonstrators  contesting Hun Sen's election victory.
The Sam Rainsy Party, in a  statement released Friday, accused Hun Sen of being ``unwilling to  make any compromise'' on negotiations to break the deadlock.
``A meeting  outside Cambodia, as suggested by the opposition, could place all  parties on more equal footing,'' said the statement.
``But the ruling  party refuses to negotiate unless it is able to threaten its negotiating  partners with arrest or worse.''
King Norodom Sihanouk has declined requests to chair a summit of Cambodia's  top political leaders, saying the meeting would not bring any progress  in deadlocked negotiations to form a government.
Cambodian leader  Hun Sen's ruling party and the two-party opposition had called on  the monarch to lead top-level talks, but disagreed on its location.
``Papa will not preside over any summit meeting between the three  parties, whether it is held in Phnom Penh or Beijing, because such  a meeting will certainly achieve no result,'' Sihanouk wrote in an  Oct. 17 letter to his son, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, leader of the  senior opposition FUNCINPEC party.
A copy of the letter was obtained  Thursday.
In it, the king called on the three parties to make compromises  to end the stalemate: ``Papa would like to ask all three parties to  take responsibility before the nation and the people.''
Hun Sen used  Thursday's anniversary of a peace agreement ending the country's civil  war to pressure the opposition to form a coalition government with  his party.
``Only those who want to prolong the anarchy and instability  prevent efforts to set up a new government,'' Hun Sen said in a televised  speech marking the anniversary of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords.
Hun  Sen's party won 64 of the 122 seats in parliament in July's national  election, but not the two-thirds majority necessary to form a government  on its own.
Opposition parties led by Ranariddh and former finance  minister Sam Ram Rainsy have refused to enter into a coalition with  Hun Sen until their allegations of election fraud have been thoroughly  investigated.
International monitors said the election was relatively  free and fair.
Hun Sen said his current government would remain in  power as long as the opposition refused to form a new one.
Ranariddh  and Sam Rainsy have remained outside the country since the Sept. 24  ceremonial convening of parliament.
Citing Hun Sen's threats to arrest  opposition politicians following two alleged attempts on his life,  Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have said they do not feel safe negotiating  inside the country and asked the king to chair the summit at his residence  in Beijing.
Hun Sen has rejected the opposition's reservations, saying  it would be inappropriate to hold a summit outside the country.
Negotiations  so far have proved fruitless except for the opening of parliament  after a Sept. 22 summit led by the king.
Hun Sen implied Thursday  that the opposition failed to follow through on promises made at the  summit.
``If those results are strictly respected, there seems no  reason to hold another summit,'' Hun Sen said in a speech on the anniversary  of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords.
Sihanouk is reportedly set to fly  to Beijing next month to receive medical treatment from his Chinese  doctors.
The 75-year-old monarch suffers from a variety ailments and  periodically makes extended trips to Beijing.
He was diagnosed with  colon cancer in 1993, but it has since gone into remission.
In September,  thousands of people filled the streets of Phnom Penh to protest against  the alleged election fraud.
Hun Sen ordered police to break up the  demonstrations.
At least four demonstrators were killed by police,  but the discovery of more than 20 bodies in the aftermath has prompted  speculation that the death tally could be much higher.
In his speech,  Hun Sen blamed the violence on opposition leaders, saying the demonstrations  instigated social and economic chaos.
Cambodia's two-party opposition asked the Asian Development Bank Monday  to stop providing loans to the incumbent government, which it calls  illegal.
Negotiations to form the next government have become deadlocked,  and opposition party leaders Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy  are out of the country following threats of arrest from strongman  Hun Sen. Hun Sen complained Monday that the opposition was trying  to make its members' return an international issue.
Hun Sen's ruling  party narrowly won a majority in elections in July, but the opposition  has denied Hun Sen  the two-thirds vote in parliament required to approve the next government.
Meanwhile, it says, the old government is holding power illegally.
Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy renewed their international lobbying campaign  against the old government Monday in a letter to ADB President Mitsuo  Sato calling for the bank to stop lending money to it.
``We respectfully  advise the Asian Development Bank not to provide any new loans to  the current regime in Cambodia,'' the two party leaders wrote.
``At  best the current regime could be considered a caretaker government  as it has not been approved by the National Assembly.''
After a meeting  between Hun Sen and the new French ambassador to Cambodia, Hun Sen  aide Prak Sokhonn said the Cambodian leader had repeated calls for  the opposition to return, but expressed concern that the international  community may be asked for security guarantees.
``There have been  reports that there is an attempt to internationalize the return of  those members of parliament on the excuse of security problems,''  Prak Sokhonn said.
``Some (opposition politicians) have wanted the  United Nations to help guarantee a safe return for them.''
The U.N.  secretary-general's representative office in Phnom Penh provided monitors  to opposition politicians after they returned to Cambodia to participate  in the July election.
The monitoring ended Sept. 30.
``Our office  has not received any official request for that operation to be started  up again,'' U.N. diplomat Jonathan Prentice said Monday in reaction  to Prak Sokhonn's statement.
The opposition has insisted that any  further talks on the next government must take place outside the country,  but the ruling party has rejected allegations of intimidation and  recently guaranteed opposition members' safety inside the country.
Diplomatic efforts to revive the stalled talks appeared to bear fruit  Monday as Japanese Foreign Affairs Secretary of State Nobutaka Machimura  said King Norodom Sihanouk has called on Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy  to return to Cambodia.
Less than two weeks after abandoning hope that  he could influence the parties to reach a compromise, Sihanouk is  now ``strongly interested'' in presiding over a summit meeting of  the three party leaders in Cambodia, Machimura said.
Cambodia's ruling party responded Tuesday to criticisms of its leader  in the U.S. Congress with a lengthy defense of strongman Hun Sen's  human rights record.
The Cambodian People's Party criticized a non-binding  resolution passed earlier this month by the U.S. House of Representatives  calling for an investigation into violations of international humanitarian  law allegedly committed by Hun Sen. Events mentioned in the resolution  include Hun Sen's coup last year against his co-prime minister, Prince  Norodom Ranariddh, and his violent crackdown in September against  anti-government demonstrations.
A copy of the resolution has since  been submitted to the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
``The CPP would like to launch an appeal to U.S. senators to wisely  and realistically consider this draft resolution and give justice  to the CPP, Hun Sen and the Cambodian people by not approving it,''  the party said in a statement.
It defended Hun Sen's ouster of Ranariddh  as a proper response to the prince's attempts at the time to negotiate  the defections of senior Khmer Rouge rebels.
It also repeated claims  that the prince's party had moved rebel soldiers into Phnom Penh,  a contention that remains unproved.
The killings of nearly 100 of  Ranariddh's supporters documented by U.N. human rights workers in  the aftermath of the coup were dismissed by the CPP as mostly fabrications  meant to distort the political situation.
Ranariddh and his core supporters  did not return to Cambodia until a few months before an election in  July this year that the ruling party narrowly won.
Ranariddh and his  opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results,  alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP.
When their  claims were dismissed by a Hun Sen-friendly court, they rallied their  supporters into the streets of Phnom Penh.
After two weeks of tolerating  the demonstrations, Hun Sen ordered a violent crackdown that resulted  in the deaths of at least four protesters.
U.N. human rights workers  many bearing signs of torture  _ in and around the capital, prompting speculation that the death  toll could be much higher.
The ruling party supported the police action  in its statement, noting that public property was damaged by protesters  and that grenades were thrown at Hun Sen's home after Sam Rainsy suggested  in a speech that the U.S. government should fire cruise missiles at  Hun Sen. The opposition claims the grenade attack was staged as an  excuse to begin the crackdown.
``The leaders of illegal demonstrations  are the ones who must bear responsibility for the consequences deriving  from the protest,'' the CPP said Tuesday, referring to the deadly  violence as ``minor incidents.''
The ruling party also reminded the  United States that Washington supported a Cambodian exile government  dominated by the brutal Khmer Rouge in the 1980s.
The Khmer Rouge  was responsible for the deaths of as many as 2 million people during  the guerrilla group's 1975-79 rule of Cambodia.
After a series of  border clashes, the Khmer Rouge was ousted from power by an invading  Vietnamese army that set up a surrogate Cambodian communist government  later led by Hun Sen. The ruling party accused U.S. policy-makers  of not taking timely action to save the Cambodian people from the  Khmer Rouge.
``They must not make unjust accusations against those  who led the struggle to liberate the people from genocide,'' it added.
Cambodia's leading opposition party ruled out sharing the presidency  of Parliament with its arch foe Saturday, insisting it alone must  occupy the top position in the legislative body.
Disputes over the  presidency have been a major stumbling block in talks between the  two-party opposition bloc and the Cambodian People's Party to form  a new government.
Cambodian leader Hun Sen, who heads the CPP, has  offered to share the legislature's top job with the royalist FUNCINPEC  party of Prince Norodom Ranariddh in order to break the impasse.
The  prince's party, in a statement dated Friday and seen Saturday, said  such a scenario was unconstitutional.
``Co-sharing anything with the  CPP means surrendering full power to them.
Furthermore, such a proposal  is unconstitutional,'' the faxed statement said.
The royalist party  also rejected Hun Sen's calls to hold bilateral talks, insisting that  Ranariddh's main ally Sam Rainsy also be included.
``No party with  seats at the National Assembly should be left out if transparency  and a check and balance system is to be used in government,'' the  statement said, adding that the Sam Rainsy Party should also be given  chairmanship of one of the national assembly's nine commissions.
Noting  that FUNCINPEC allowed the CPP to hold the presidency despite its  win in the 1993 general elections, the statement said it was now its  turn to take the post.
In the most recent elections, held in July,  Hun Sen's party collected 64 of the 122 parliamentary seats, but was  short of the two-thirds majority needed to set up a new government.
Fearing arrest, many opposition members of Parliament left Cambodia  after the ceremonial opening of the National Assembly on Sep. 24.
A series of negotiations to forge a new government have failed.
The  talks have been complicated by the CPP-FUNCINPEC quarrel over the  Parliament's top job.
Hun Sen's party recently called on Ranariddh  to return to the negotiation table and said it was willing to make  an ``appropriate concession'' to break the deadlock over forming a  government.
FUNCINPEC has demanded from Hun Sen written guarantees  for the safety of its members and activities as a precondition for  re-entering negotiations.
Cambodia's bickering political parties broke a three-month deadlock  Friday and agreed to a coalition government leaving strongman Hun  Sen as sole prime minister, King Norodom Sihanouk announced.
In a  long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh  will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed  elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of  64 seats in the 122-member chamber.
Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party  dropped insistence on a joint assembly chairmanship shared by Ranariddh  and party boss Chea Sim, the current speaker.
It was one of the main  stumbling blocks in months of discord.
Instead, Sihanouk announced,  the constitution will be modified to create a new Senate, which Chea  Sim will head.
Chea Sim will still serve as acting head of state during  the king's frequent absences from the country.
``The major political  crisis in the country has been resolved and the political deadlock  facing the nation has also come to an end,'' the king said in his  statement.
The Senate will initially be appointed by the king.
The  agreement did not say how many seats there would be, nor how they  would be divided.
The parties will hammer out details later.
Pok Than,  one of Ranariddh's negotiators, said the Senate would serve a mostly  advisory role to the assembly.
The senior Senate leaders will join  those of the assembly, the prime minister and the country's top two  Buddhist monks in a delicate balance of power on the council that  will choose Cambodia's next king after Sihanouk dies.
The two parties  said that the assembly would convene again Nov. 25.
The agreement  came surprisingly quickly following Ranariddh's return Thursday from  Thailand, where he had been holed up with other opposition figures  for weeks amid fears for their safety if they stayed in Cambodia.
The deal should allow rapid formation of a government between the  CPP and Ranariddh's royalist FUNCINPEC to allow international donors  and businesses to again operate in the poverty-stricken country, which  is in desperate need of aid.
It could also hasten Cambodia's entry  into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, put on hold last  year after Hun Sen deposed Ranariddh as co-prime minister in a bloody  coup.
Earlier, as both sides arrived at the Royal Palace for a second  day of meetings, Sihanouk said they had agreed in principle to form  a coalition and made ``important concessions.''
The king, the sole  force in Cambodian politics able to broker a deal, pressured both  sides to reach agreement before he leaves Saturday for medical treatment  in Beijing.
Sihanouk reported that Hun Sen responded positively to  a request by Ranariddh for five of his key supporters to receive political  pardons.
All five were convicted of political crimes by courts that  are widely seen as loyal to Hun Sen. The king has powers to grant  pardons, but has awaited agreement from Hun Sen in politically sensitive  cases.
Former battlefield enemies, the CPP and FUNCINPEC have been  at loggerheads since the CPP narrowly won parliamentary elections  in July.
The vote failed to put an end to instability that followed  last year's coup.
The CPP fell short of the two-thirds majority needed  to form a government alone.
Ranariddh's party and opposition ally  Sam Rainsy held back their support, claiming the CPP won due to fraud  and intimidation.
The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh  seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed.
Sam Rainsy,  under investigation by a Phnom Penh court for his role in the demonstrations,  has remained abroad.
His 15 seats in the 122-seat assembly are irrelevant  to forming a working government.
Cambodian politicians expressed hope Monday that a new partnership  between the parties of strongman Hun Sen and his rival, Prince Norodom  Ranariddh, in a coalition government would not end in more violence.
Hun Sen and Ranariddh, co-prime ministers in a coalition formed in  1993 after a landmark U.N.-sponsored election, often clashed over  power-sharing and the integration of guerrilla fighters from the crumbling  Khmer Rouge.
Their arguments turned bloody last year when Hun Sen  ousted Ranariddh in a coup.
The prince fled Cambodia and did not return  until a few months before elections in July.
Hun Sen's Cambodian People's  Party narrowly won the polls, but a strong second-place finish by  Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC gave the royalist party leverage in post-election  negotiations.
After a three-month impasse, they agreed last week to  a coalition deal that will make Hun Sen sole prime minister and Ranariddh  president of the National Assembly.
``This will not be a repetition  of 1993 because there will not be two prime ministers,'' said Hun  Sen aide Prak Sokhon, who attended last week's summit.
``When we had  two prime ministers, everything moved very slowly and decisions were  made more politically than technically.''
Ranariddh said Saturday  that the two parties agreed to keep the ministries of interior and  defense under co-ministers.
Senior FUNCINPEC official Ahmad Yahya  revealed Monday that it was also agreed that the CPP would control  the foreign affairs and finance portfolios.
FUNCINPEC will take justice  and information.
The parties are to form working groups this week  to divide remaining government posts and draft a constitutional amendment  to form a new Senate.
Hun Sen and Ranariddh are scheduled to meet  to review the results  of the working groups and give their final approval, Ahmad Yahya said.
Their ability to repair their relationship and work together will  be the key to a stable coalition.
``I consider this a remarriage,''  Ahmad Yahya said.
``They have to be careful with the way they work  and what they say.
They will have to compromise to achieve results.''
Ranariddh's ally, Sam Rainsy, whose party placed a distant third in  the election, was left out of last week's deal.
Sam Rainsy, a virulent  critic of Hun Sen, and his party's 14 other members of parliament  have remained outside Cambodia since September amid fears for their  security.
In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk released Monday, Sam  Rainsy complained that Hun Sen had not responded to his queries on  security, making it unsafe for his people to return for the reconvening  of parliament.
Sam Rainsy said he had been told by Ranariddh that  his party and former Khmer Rouge guerrillas had been implicated by  Hun Sen in a rocket attack on the Sept. 24 opening of parliament.
Authorities have called it an assassination attempt on Hun Sen. A  police general investigating the attack said Monday that likely suspects  have been identified, but he would not reveal names or their political  affiliation.
Cambodian leader Hun Sen has guaranteed the safety and political freedom  of all politicians, trying to ease the fears of his rivals that they  will be arrested or killed if they return to the country.
The assurances  were aimed especially at Sam Rainsy, leader of a vocally anti-Hun  Sen opposition party, who was forced to take refuge in the U.N. offices  in September to avoid arrest after Hun Sen accused him of being behind  a plot against his life.
Sam Rainsy and the 14 members of parliament  from his party have been holed up overseas for two months.
But a deal  reached between Hun Sen and his chief rival, Prince Norodom Ranariddh,  on forming a new government last week has opened the door for their  the prince's father  and Cambodia's head of state _ that was broadcast on television Tuesday,  Hun Sen said that guarantees of safety extended to Ranariddh applied  to all politicians.
His assurances come a week before the first session  of Cambodia's new parliament, the National Assembly.
Sam Rainsy said  Wednesday that he was unsatisfied with the guarantee.
He said it contained  indirect language and loopholes that suggest he and his Sam Rainsy  Party members are still under threat of arrest from Hun Sen's ruling  party.
``It should be easy for them to say, `Rainsy and the SRP members  of the assembly have no charges against them and will not be arrested,'''  the opposition leader said in a statement.
``But instead they make  roundabout statements, full of loopholes that can easily be exploited  by a legal system that is completely in their control.''
Ranariddh  told reporters Wednesday that he believed it was safe for Sam Rainsy  in Cambodia.
Speaking upon his return from a brief stay in Bangkok,  the prince said he would soon meet with Hun Sen to discuss the apportioning  of ministries in the new coalition government.
Last week, Hun Sen's  Cambodian People's Party and Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC party agreed to  form a coalition that would leave Hun Sen as sole prime minister and  make the prince president of the National Assembly.
The deal assures  the two-thirds vote in parliament needed to approve a new government.
The men served as co-prime ministers until Hun Sen overthrew Ranariddh  in a coup last year.
``I think Hun Sen has got everything.
He's got  the premiership and legitimacy through the election and recognition  from his majesty the king.
I don't think there is any benefit for  Hun Sen to cause instability for our country,'' Ranariddh said.
The  prince also said that his top general, Nhek Bunchhay, would not be  given back his previous position as the second-ranking general in  the Cambodian military's general staff.
Nhek Bunchhay's outnumbered  forces in the capital put up tough but unsuccessful resistance to  last year's coup.
Worried that party colleagues still face arrest for their politics,  opposition leader Sam Rainsy sought further clarification Friday of  security guarantees promised by strongman Hun Sen. Sam Rainsy wrote  in a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk that he was eager to attend the  first session of the new National Assembly on Nov. 25, but complained  that Hun Sen's assurances were not strong enough to ease concerns  his party members may be arrested upon their return to Cambodia.
Hun  Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians'  safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance  with the laws in force.''
Sam Rainsy, who earlier called Hun Sen's  statement ``full of loopholes,'' asked Sihanouk for his help in obtaining  a promise from Hun Sen that all members of the Sam Rainsy Party were  free from prosecution for their political activities during and after  last July's election.
Sam Rainsy, a staunch critic of Hun Sen, was  forced to take refuge in a U.N. office in September to avoid arrest  after Hun Sen accused him of being behind a plot against his life.
The alleged assassination attempt came during massive street demonstrations  organized by the opposition after Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party  narrowly won the election.
The opposition, alleging widespread fraud  and intimidation, refused to accept the results of the polls.
Fearing  for their safety, Sam Rainsy and his then-ally Prince Norodom Ranariddh  led an exodus of opposition lawmakers out of Cambodia after parliament  was ceremonially opened in late September.
Ranariddh, whose FUNCINPEC  party finished a close second in the election, returned last week  and struck a deal with Hun Sen to form a coalition government.
The  agreement will make Hun Sen prime minister and Ranariddh president  of the National Assembly.
The two parties have formed three working  groups to hammer out details of the agreement, including the establishment  of a Senate to be the upper house of parliament.
Sok An, representing  Hun Sen's party, said Friday that one working group had completed  its work on a joint political platform to be implemented by the new  government.
The platform is said to emphasize administrative, economic  and judicial reforms, but Sok An would not reveal details, saying  Hun Sen would announce it when he presents his Cabinet choices to  the National Assembly.
King Norodom Sihanouk on Tuesday praised agreements by Cambodia's  to form a coalition  government led by strongman Hun Sen. In a short letter sent to news  agencies, the king said he had received copies of cooperation agreements  signed Monday that will place Hun Sen and his Cambodian People's Party  in firm control of fiscal and administrative functions in the government.
``The protocol on cooperation between the CPP and FUNCINPEC will certainly  bring peace and progress to our nation and people,'' Sihanouk wrote.
Uncompromising enemies just a few months ago, Hun Sen and FUNCINPEC  President Prince Norodom Ranariddh agreed Nov. 13 to form a government  at a summit convened by Sihanouk.
The deal, which will make Hun Sen  prime minister and Ranariddh president of the National Assembly, ended  more than three months of political deadlock that followed a July  election narrowly won by Hun Sen. Key to the agreement was the formation  of a Senate as the upper house of Parliament, to be led by CPP President  Chea Sim, the outgoing head of the National Assembly.
Sihanouk, recalling  procedures used in a past government, suggested Tuesday that he should  appoint the first two members of the upper house.
The remaining senators,  he said, should be selected by a method agreed upon by the new government  and the National Assembly.
Hun Sen said Monday that the CPP and FUNCINPEC  had agreed that the Senate would be half as large as the 122-seat  National Assembly.
Other details of the Senate, including how much  power it will be given in the promulgation of legislation, have yet  to be ironed out by the two parties.
Hurricane Mitch approached Honduras on Oct. 27, 1998 with winds up to 180mph a Category 5 storm.
It hit the Honduran coast on Oct. 28 bringing downpours that forced large-scale evacuations.
On Nov. 1 Nicaragua announced collapse of a drenched volcano crater killing about 2,000.
By then Mitch's winds were down to 30mph, but as disaster reports poured in the death toll finally exceeded 10,000 and half a million left homeless.
The European Union, international relief agencies, Mexico, the U.S., Japan, Taiwan, the U.K. and U.N. sent financial aid, relief workers and supplies.
Pope John Paul II appealed to "all public and private institutions" to help.
Honduras braced as category 5 Hurricane Mitch approached.
Slow-moving Mitch battered the Honduran coast for 3 days.
Honduran death estimates grew from 32 to 231 in the first days, to 6,076, with 4,621 missing.
About 2,000 were killed in Nicaragua, 239 in El Salvador, 194 in Guatemala, 6 in southern Mexico and 7 in Costa Rica.
The EU approved 6.4 million ecu in aid to Mitch's victims.
The Pope appealed for aid.
The US boosted aid to $70 million.
A id workers struggled to reach survivors in danger.
Hurricane winds, rain and floods caused massive damage to homes, businesses, roads and bridges.
Latest reports estimate over 10,000 killed in Central America.
Hurricane Mitch, category 5 hurricane, brought widespread death and destruction to Central American.
Especially hard hit was Honduras where an estimated 6,076 people lost their lives.
The hurricane, which lingered off the coast of Honduras for 3 days before moving off, flooded large areas, destroying crops and property.
The U.S. and European Union were joined by Pope John Paul II in a call for money and workers to help the stricken area.
President Clinton sent Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Gore to the area to deliver much needed supplies to the area, demonstrating U.S. commitment to the recovery of the region.
A category 5 storm, Hurricane Mitch roared across the northwest Caribbean with 180 mph winds across a 350-mile front that devastated the mainland and islands of Central America.
Although the force of the storm diminished, at least 8,000 people died from wind, waves and flood damage.
The greatest losses were in Honduras where some 6,076 people perished.
Around 2,000 people were killed in Nicaragua, 239 in El Salvador, 194 in Guatemala, seven in Costa Rica and six in Mexico.
At least 569,000 people were homeless across Central America.
Aid was sent from many sources (European Union, the UN, US and Mexico).
Relief efforts are hampered by extensive damage.
Honduras braced for potential catastrophe Tuesday as Hurricane Mitch  roared through the northwest Caribbean, churning up high waves and  intense rain that sent coastal residents scurrying for safer ground.
President Carlos Flores Facusse declared a state of maximum alert  and the Honduran military sent planes to pluck residents from their  homes on islands near the coast.
At 0900 GMT Tuesday, Mitch was 95  miles (152 kilometers) north of Honduras, near the Swan Islands.
With  winds near 180 mph (289 kph), and even higher gusts, it was a Category  the highest, most dangerous rating for a storm.
The 350-mile  (560-kilometer) wide hurricane was moving west at 8 mph (12 kph).
``Mitch is closing in,'' said Monterrey Cardenas, mayor of Utila,  an island 20 miles (32 kilometers) off the Honduran coast.
``And God  help us.''
Mitch posed no immediate threat to the United States, forecasters  said, but was expected to remain in the northwest Caribbean for five  days.
The U.S. National Weather Service in Miami said Mitch could  weaken somewhat, but warned it would still remain ``a very dangerous  hurricane capable of causing catastrophic damage.''
The entire coast  of Honduras was under a hurricane warning and up to 15 inches (38  centimeters) of rain was forecast in mountain areas.
The Honduran  president closed schools and public offices on the coast Monday and  ordered all air force planes and helicopters to evacuate people from  the Islas de la Bahia, a string of small islands off the country's  central coast.
The head of the Honduran armed forces, Gen. Mario Hung  Pacheco, said 5,000 soldiers were standing by to help victims of the  storm, but he warned the military could not reach everyone.
``For  that humanitarian work, we would need more than 300 Hercules C-137  planes,'' he said.
``Honduras doesn't have them.''
A hurricane warning  was also in effect for the Caribbean coast of Guatemala.
In Belize,  a hurricane watch was in place and the government also closed schools  and sent workers home early Monday.
Panic buying stripped bread from  the shelves of some stores and some gasoline stations ran dry.
Coastal  Belize City was hit so hard by Hurricane Hattie in 1961 that the country  built a new capital inland at Belmopan.
Mexico mobilized troops and  emergency workers Monday on the east coast of the Yucatan peninsula,  which was also under a hurricane watch, and Cuba said it had evacuated  600 vacationers from the Island of Youth.
Jerry Jarrell, the weather  center director, said Mitch was the strongest hurricane to strike  the Caribbean since 1988, when Gilbert killed more than 300 people.
In La Ceiba, on Honduras' northern coast, people stood in long lines  at filling stations Monday to buy gasoline under a steady rain.
Maria  Gonzalez said she needed the gas to cook with when her firewood gets  wet.
Still, she bought only 37 cents worth _ all she could afford.
``I have six children, and we live in a riverbed,'' she said.
``If  it gets really bad, we'll go to the church and see what the architect  of the world has in store for us.''
Swinwick Jackson, a fisherman  on Utila, had tied up his boats and was taking his family to stay  with a relative on higher ground.
National police spokesman Ivan Mejia  said the Coco, Segovia and Cruta rivers all overflowed their banks  Monday along Honduras' eastern coast.
``Frightened people are moving  into the mountains to search for shelter,'' he said.
In El Progreso,  100 miles (160 kilometers) north of the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa,  the army evacuated more than 5,000 people who live in low-lying banana  plantations along the Ulua River, said Nolly Soliman, a resident.
Before bearing down on Honduras, Mitch swept past Jamaica and the  Cayman Islands.
Rain squalls flooded streets in the Jamaican capital,  Kingston, and government offices and schools closed in the Caymans,  a British colony of 28,000 people.
The strongest hurricane to hit  Honduras in recent memory was Fifi in 1974, which ravaged Honduras'  Caribbean coast, killing at least 2,000 people.
Hurricane Mitch paused in its whirl through the western Caribbean  on Wednesday to punish Honduras with 120-mph (205-kph) winds, topping  trees, sweeping away bridges, flooding neighborhoods and killing at  least 32 people.
Mitch was drifting west at only 2 mph (3 kph) over  the Bay Islands, Honduras' most popular tourist area.
It also was  only 30 miles (50 kms) off the coast, and hurricane-force winds stretched  outward 105 miles (165 kms); tropical storm-force winds 175 miles  (280 kms).
That meant the Honduran coast had been under hurricane  conditions for more than a day.
``The hurricane has destroyed almost  everything,'' said Mike Brown, a resident of Guanaja Island which  was within miles (kms) of the eye of the hurricane.
``Few houses have  remained standing.''
At its, 4th graf pvs
Hurricane Mitch cut through the Honduran coast like a ripsaw Thursday,  its devastating winds whirling for a third day through resort islands  and mainland communities.
At least 32 people were killed and widespread  flooding prompted more than 150,000 to seek higher ground.
Mitch,  once among the century's most powerful hurricanes, weakened today  as it blasted this Central American nation, bringing downpours that  flooded at least 50 rivers.
It also kicked up huge waves that pounded  seaside communities.
The storm's power was easing and by 1200 GMT,  it had sustained winds of 80 mph (130 kph), down from 100 mph (160  kph) around midnight and well below its 180 mph (290 kph) peak of  early Tuesday.
After remaining virtually stationary for more than  a day, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Thursday the center  of the 350-mile-wide (560-kilometer-wide) storm had moved slightly  to the south but remained just off the Honduran coast.
Hurricane-force  winds whirled up to 30 miles (50 kilometers) from the center, with  rain-laden tropical storm winds extending well beyond that.
Caught  near the heart of the storm were the Bay Islands, about 25 miles (40  kilometers) off Honduras' coast and popular with divers and beachcombers.
``The hurricane has destroyed almost everything,'' said Mike Brown,  a resident of Guanaja Island, 20 miles (32 kilometers) off the coast.
``Few houses have remained standing.''
Honduran officials said 14  people had died on that small island alone, and at least nine had  died elsewhere in the country.
More than 72,000 people had been evacuated  to shelters.
Nine other deaths had been reported elsewhere in the  more than a day after Mitch drifted to  just off the coast and seemed to park there.
An American was thrown  from his boat south of Cancun, Mexico, on Monday and was presumed  dead.
Eight others died in Nicaragua in flooding.
Honduran officials  said more than 200 towns and villages had been isolated by the storm,  left without power, telephones or clean drinking water.
Agriculture  Minister Pedro Arturo Sevilla said crucial grain, citrus and banana  crops had been damaged ``and the economic future of Honduras is uncertain.''
Rain-swollen rivers knocked out bridges and roads, isolating La Ceiba,  a coastal city of 40,000 people located 80 miles (128 kilometers)  from the Bay Islands.
About 10,000 residents fled to crowded shelters  in schools, churches and firehouses.
While supplies of food and gasoline  seemed to hold up, drivers worried about the coming days formed long  lines to fill their tanks at gas stations and some supermarkets took  measures to limit panic buying.
La Ceiba officials appealed for pure  water for those in shelters and some residents set out plastic buckets  to collect rainwater.
Only a few hotels and offices with their own  generators had electricity.
Wind-whipped waves almost buried some  houses near the shore.
People evacuated low-lying houses by wading  through chest-deep water with sodden bags of belongings on their heads.
In neighboring Belize, most of the 75,000 residents of coastal Belize  City had left by Wednesday, turning the country's largest city into  a ghost town.
Police and soldiers patrolled the streets, and a few  people wandered amid the boarded-up houses.
The cable television company  was broadcasting only The Weather Channel.
With the storm seemingly  anchored off Honduras, officials in Mexico to the north eased emergency  measures on the Caribbean coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, where hundreds  of people remained in shelters as a precaution Wednesday night.
More  than 20,000 tourists had abandoned Cancun and nearby resort areas,  leaving hotels at about 20 percent of capacity.
Houston accountant  Kathy Montgomery said that she and her friend Nina Devries had tried  to leave Cancun but found all the flights full.
``It's been horrible,''  said Montgomery, as she and her friend drank cocktails at an outdoor  restaurant.
``We couldn't go out on a boat, we couldn't go snorkeling.
``Even Carlos' N Charlie's and Senor Frog's are closed,'' she said  dejectedly, referring to two restaurants.
``Some vacation.''
The U.S.  Agency for International Development sent two helicopters each to  Belize and Honduras to help in search, rescue and relief efforts.
At its peak, Mitch was the fourth-strongest Caribbean hurricane in  this century, behind Gilbert in 1988, Allen in 1980 and the Labor  Day hurricane of 1935.
At least 231 people have been confirmed dead in Honduras from former-hurricane  Mitch, bringing the storm's death toll in the region to 357, the National  once, 2nd graf pvs
In Honduras, at least 231 deaths have been blamed on Mitch, the National  where 140 people  died in flash floods _ declared a state of emergency Saturday, as  did Guatemala, where 21 people died when floods swept away their homes.
Mexico reported one death from Mitch last Monday.
In the Caribbean,  the U.S. Coast Guard widened a search for a tourist schooner with  31 people aboard that hasn't been heard from since Tuesday.
By late  Sunday, Mitch's winds, once near 180 mph (290 kph), had dropped to  near 30 mph (50 kph), and the storm _ now classified as a tropical  depression _ was near Tapachula, on Mexico's southern Pacific coast  near the Guatemalan border.
Mitch was moving west at 8 mph (13 kph)  and was dissipating but threatened to strengthen again if it moved  back out to sea.
Nicaraguan Vice President Enrique Bolanos said Sunday night that between  1,000 and 1,500 people were buried in a 32-square mile (82.88 square-kilometer)  area below the slopes of the Casita volcano in northern Nicaragua.
That is in addition to least another 600 people elsewhere in the country,  Bolanos said.
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The European Union on Tuesday approved 6.4  million European currency units (dlrs 7.7 million) in aid for thousands  of victims of the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch in Central  America.
EU spokesman Pietro Petrucci said the funds will be used  to provide basic care such as medicine, food, water sanitation and  blankets to thousands of people whose homes were destroyed by torrential  rains and mudslides.
The aid will be distributed in Nicaragua, El  Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala which have most suffered from Mitch's  deadly passage, the EU executive Commission said in a statement.
Officials  in Central America estimated Tuesday that about 7,000 people have  died in the region.
The greatest losses were reported in Honduras,  10 percent  of the population _ were forced to flee their homes after last week's  storm.
El Salvador's National Emergency Committee listed 174 dead,  96 missing and 27,000 homeless.
But its own regional affiliate in  San Miguel province reported 125 dead there alone.
Guatemala reported  100 storm-related deaths.
The latest EU aid follows an initial 400,000  ecu (dlrs 480,000).
the EU approved for the region on Friday.
The  full 6.8 million ecu (dlrs 8.18 million) will be channeled through  humanitarian groups working in the region.
Pope John Paul II appealed for aid Wednesday for the Central American  countries stricken by hurricane Mitch and said he feels close to the  thousands who are suffering.
Speaking during his general audience,  the pope urged ``all public and private institutions and all men of  good will'' to do all they can ``in this grave moment of destruction  and death.''
Hurricane Mitch killed an estimated 9,000 people throughout  Central America in a disaster of such proportions that relief agencies  have been overwhelmed.
Among those attending the audience were six  Russian cosmonauts taking a special course in Italy.
As a gift, they  gave John Paul a spacesuit.
Better information from Honduras' ravaged countryside enabled officials  to lower the confirmed death toll from Hurricane Mitch from 7,000  to about 6,100 on Thursday, but leaders insisted the need for help  was growing.
President Carlos Flores declared Hurricane Mitch had  set back Honduras' development by 50 years.
He urged the more than  1.5 million Hondurans affected by the storm to help with the recovery  effort.
``The county is semi-destroyed and awaits the maximum effort  and most fervent and constant work of every one of its children,''  he said.
In the capital, Tegucigalpa, Mexican rescue teams began searching  for avalanche victims.
Honduran doctors dispensed vaccinations to  prevent disease outbreaks in shelters crammed with refugees.
As of  down from officials'  earlier estimate of 7,000.
The numbers of missing dropped from an  estimated 11,000 to 4,621, Government Minister Delmer Urbizo said.
``We have more access to places affected by the storm,'' Urbizo explained.
``Until now, we have had a short amount of time and few resources  to get reliable information.''
In Nicaragua, around 2,000 people were  killed, most of those swept away when a volcano crater lake collapsed  a week ago.
El Salvador reported 239 dead; Guatemala said 194 of its  people had been killed.
Six people died in southern Mexico and seven  in Costa Rica.
Aid groups and governments have called for other countries  to send medicine, water, canned food, roofing materials and equipment  to help deliver supplies.
In Washington on Thursday, President Bill  Clinton ordered dlrs 30 million in Defense Department equipment and  services and dlrs 36 million in food, fuel and other aid be sent to  Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.
The White House also  said Clinton was dispatching Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al  Gore, to Central America on a mission to show the U.S. commitment  to providing humanitarian relief.
Hillary Rodham Clinton also will  travel to the region, visiting Nicaragua and Honduras on Nov. 16.
She later will stop in El Salvador and Guatemala before continuing  on to Haiti and the Dominican Republic for a visit that had been canceled  due to Hurricane Georges, which struck the Caribbean in October.
Mitch,  which sat off the Honduran coast for several days last week, destroyed  scores of Central American communities before moving northwest.
The  weakened storm crossed southern Florida on Thursday, damaging mobile  homes and buildings and injuring at least seven people.
Countries  overwhelmed by the storm's devastation have only just begun to calculate  the damage.
Honduran authorities still don't know how many shelters  have been set up across the Central American country.
Surveyors have  yet to evaluate roughly 10 percent of the most affected areas _ the  departments of Cortes, Atlantida, Colon and Yoro in the north, southern  Choluteca and Valle, and the central department of Francisco Morazan,  which includes the capital.
Numbers still can vary wildly.
The estimated  number of homeless dropped from 580,000 to 569,000 Thursday.
Mitch  damaged or destroyed at least 90 bridges on major highways, including  most spans on Highway 5, the main north-south route, officials said.
Urbizo said Honduran officials hoped the scale of need in next-door  Nicaragua wouldn't overshadow Honduras' plight.
``Our problem is that  all of the country has been affected,'' he said.
Thursday's relief  operations paled in comparison to the scope of the disaster.
A total  of 14 helicopter relief missions were delivering aid to stricken towns,  said Col. Roger Antonio Caceres of the government's Operation Mitch  emergency response task force.
``We can manage with the number of  aircraft we have because there is little to distribute,'' Caceres  said.
More help was on the way.
Mexico was sending 700 tons of food,  11 tons of medicine, at least 12 helicopters, four cargo planes and  475 soldiers to help in relief operations.
The United States committed  19 Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters, two C-27 aircraft and one C-130  cargo plane.
France said it was sending 250 rescue workers to Central  America, along with a ship loaded with construction material and equipment.
The U.N. World Food Program said Thursday it was diverting ships,  some already at sea, to rush their cargoes of donated food to Central  America.
It also was pulling food from warehouses at its base in Rome,  probably for delivery by emergency relief flights, spokesman Trevor  Rowe said.
``We're trying to move food as fast as possible to help  people as soon as possible,'' Rowe said.
Searches for the missing  continued, and some decomposed bodies, once found, were being buried  in common graves.
About 100 victims had been buried around Tegucigalpa,  Mayor Nahum Valladeres said.
In the flood-ravaged Tegucigalpa neighborhood  of Nueva Esperanza, Mexican military rescuers loaded search dogs on  their backs and forded a muddy river to look for people believed buried  in a 200-foot (60-meter) avalanche that occurred last Friday.
Dozens  of homes were swept into the river.
``This is the first place we've  been'' with the dogs, Honduran army Maj. Freddy Diaz Celaya said.
``From here we'll continue searching downriver.''
Concerned that crowded  shelter conditions could produce outbreaks of hepatitis, respiratory  infections and other ailments, the Health Ministry announced an inoculation  campaign, especially for children.
Doctors volunteering at a shelter  housing 4,000 people at Tegucigalpa's Polytechnic Development Institute  said they'd heard of the campaign but had yet to receive word or medicines  from the Health Ministry.
``We have to vaccinate the children,'' said  Dr. Mario Soto, who has treated at least 300 children at the shelter  for diarrhea, conjunctivitis and bacterial infections.
Aid workers struggled Friday to reach survivors of Hurricane Mitch,  who are in danger of dying from starvation and disease in the wake  of the storm that officials estimate killed more than 10,000 people.
Foreign aid and pledges of assistance poured into Central America,  but damage to roads and bridges reduced the amount of supplies reaching  hundreds of isolated communities to a trickle: only as much as could  be dropped from a helicopter, when the aircraft can get through.
In  the Aguan River Valley in northern Honduras, floodwaters have receded,  leaving a carpet of mud over hundreds of acres (hectares).
In many  nearby villages, residents have gone days without potable water or  food.
A 7-month-old baby died in the village of Olvido after three  days without food.
Residents feared more children would die.
``The  worst thing, the saddest thing, are the children.
The children are  suffering, even dying,'' said the Rev. Cecilio Escobar Gallindo, the  parish priest.
A score of cargo aircraft landed Thursday at the normally  quiet Toncontin airport in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa, delivering  aid from Mexico, the United States, Japan and Argentina.
Former U.S.  President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, intended to visit Nicaragua  on Friday to learn more about the hurricane's impact, The Carter Center  in Atlanta announced.
``We hope this visit will help call attention  to the suffering and humanitarian need this disaster has created,''  Carter said in a statement.
U.S. President Bill Clinton requested  a ``global relief effort'' to help Central America and boosted U.S.  emergency aid to dlrs 70 million.
Clinton is dispatching a delegation  next week led by Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al Gore, to deliver  some of the supplies destined for Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador  and Guatemala.
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton added Nicaragua and  Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov. 16.
Taiwan  said today it will donate dlrs 2.6 million in relief to Honduras,  Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.
The four countries are among  a dwindling number of nations that recognize Taiwan, which China claims  is a breakaway province.
Two British ships that were in the area on  an exercise were on their way to Honduras to join relief efforts,  the Defense Ministry said Friday.
``It's a coincidence that the ships  are there but they've got men and equipment that can be put to work  in an organized way,'' said International Development Secretary Clare  Short.
Nicaragua said Friday it will accept Cuba's offer to send doctors  as long as the communist nation flies them in on its own helicopters  and with their own supplies.
Nicaraguan leaders previously had refused  Cuba's offer of medical help, saying it did not have the means to  transport or support the doctors.
Nicaragua's leftist Sandinistas,  who maintained close relations with Fidel Castro during their 1979-90  rule, had criticized the refusal by President Arnoldo Aleman's administration.
On Oct. 16, 1998 British police arrested former Chilean dictator Pinochet on a Spanish warrant charging murder of Spaniards in Chile, 1973-1983.
Fidel Castro denounced the arrest.
The Chilean government protested strongly.
While the British government defended the arrest, it and the Spanish government took no stand on extradition of Pinochet to Spain, leaving it to the courts.
Chilean legislators lobbied in Madrid against extradition, while others endorsed it.
Then new charges were filed for crimes against Swiss and French citizens.
Pinochet's wife and family pleaded that he was too sick to face extradition.
As of Oct. 28 the matter was not resolved.
Pinochet arrested in London on Oct. 16 at a Spanish judge's request for atrocities against Spaniards in Chile during his rule.
Castro, Chilean legislators and Pinochet's lawyers protested and claimed he had diplomatic immunity.
His wife asked for his release because he was recovering from recent back surgery.
Pinochet visited Thatcher before his surgery.
The British and Spanish governments defended the arrest, saying it was strictly a legal matter.
The EC president hoped Pinochet would stand trial.
None of his Swiss accounts have been frozen yet.
The Swiss government also asked for his arrest for the 1977 disappearance of a Swiss-Chilean student.
Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has been arrested in London at the request of the Spanish government.
Pinochet, in London for back surgery, was arrested in his hospital room.
Spain is seeking extradition of Pinochet from London to Spain to face charges of murder in the deaths of Spanish citizens in Chile under Pinochet's rule in the 1970s and 80s.
The arrest raised confusion in the international community as the legality of the move is debated.
Pinochet supporters say that Pinochet's arrest is illegal, claiming he has diplomatic immunity.
The final outcome of the extradition request lies with the Spanish courts.
Britain caused international controversy and Chilean turmoil by arresting former Chilean dictator Pinochet in London for Spain's investigation of Spanish citizen deaths under Pinochet's 17-year rule of torture and political murder.
Claims are Pinochet had diplomatic immunity, extradition is international meddling or illegal because Pinochet is not a Spanish citizen, also his crimes should be punished.
Spain and Britain, big Chilean investors, fear damage to economic relations and let courts decide extradition.
The Swiss haven't investigated Pinochet accounts despite a Spanish request.
Pinochet is shielded from details, said too sick to be extradited.
Cuban President Fidel Castro said Sunday he disagreed with the arrest  in London of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, calling it  a case of ``international meddling.''
``It seems to me that what has  happened there (in London) is universal meddling,'' Castro told reporters  covering the Ibero-American summit being held here Sunday.
Castro  had just finished breakfast with King Juan Carlos of Spain in a city  hotel.
He said the case seemed to be ``unprecedented and unusual.''
Pinochet, 82, was placed under arrest in London Friday by British  police acting on a warrant issued by a Spanish judge.
The judge is  probing Pinochet's role in the death of Spaniards in Chile under his  rule in the 1970s and 80s.
The Chilean government has protested Pinochet's  arrest, insisting that as a senator he was traveling on a diplomatic  passport and had immunity from arrest.
Castro, Latin America's only  remaining authoritarian leader, said he lacked details on the case  against Pinochet, but said he thought it placed the government of  Chile and President Eduardo Frei in an uncomfortable position while  Frei is attending the summit.
Castro compared the action with the  establishment in Rome in August of an International Criminal Court,  a move Cuba has expressed reservations about.
Castro said the court  ought to be independent of the U.N. Security Council, because ``we  already know who commands there,'' an apparent reference to the United  States.
The United States was one of only seven countries that voted  against creating the court.
``The (Pinochet) case is serious ... the  problem is delicate'' and the reactions of the Chilean Parliament  and armed forces bear watching, Castro said.
He expressed surprise  that the British had arrested Pinochet, especially since he had provided  support to England during its 1982 war with Argentina over the Falkland  Islands.
Although Chile maintained neutrality during the war, it was  accused of providing military intelligence to the British.
Castro  joked that he would have thought police could have waited another  24 hours to avoid having the arrest of Pinochet overshadow the summit  being held here.
``Now they are talking about the arrest of Pinochet  instead of the summit,'' he said.
Pinochet left government in 1990,  but remained as army chief until March when he became a senator-for-life.
Britain has defended its arrest of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, with one  lawmaker saying that Chile's claim that the former Chilean dictator  has diplomatic immunity is ridiculous.
Chilean officials, meanwhile,  issued strong protests and sent a delegation to London on Sunday to  argue for Pinochet's release.
The former strongman's son vowed to  hire top attorneys to defend his 82-year-old father, who ruled Chile  with an iron fist for 17 years.
British police arrested Pinochet in  his bed Friday at a private London hospital in response to a request  from Spain, which wants to question Pinochet about allegations of  murder during the decade after he seized power in 1973.
Pinochet had  gone to the hospital to have a back operation Oct. 9.
``The idea that  such a brutal dictator as Pinochet should be claiming diplomatic immunity  I think for most people in this country would be pretty gut-wrenching  stuff,'' Trade Secretary Peter Mandelson said in a British Broadcasting  Corp. television interview Sunday.
Home Office Minister Alun Michael  acknowledged Sunday that Pinochet entered Britain on a diplomatic  passport, but said, ``That does not necessarily convey diplomatic  immunity.''
The Foreign Office said only government officials visiting  on official business and accredited diplomats have immunity.
Pinochet  has been a regular visitor to Britain, generally without publicity.
His arrest this time appeared to reflect a tougher attitude toward  right-wing dictators by Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party government,  which replaced a Conservative Party administration 18 months ago and  promised an ``ethical'' foreign policy.
However, Michael Howard, a  Conservative spokesman and former Cabinet minister, said he was concerned  that Pinochet was arrested as a result of pressure from Labor lawmakers  and lobby groups.
Chilean President Eduardo Frei criticized the arrest,  saying the Spanish magistrate's arrest order was tantamount to not  recognizing Chile's institutions.
``Spain also lived under an authoritarian  for 40 years and many of its present institutions are inherited from  that regime,'' Frei said in Porto, Portugal, where he was attending  the Ibero-American Summit.
``Would a Chilean court be allowed to start  a trial for abuses that occurred under the Spanish authoritarian regime  (of Francisco Franco)?''
Frei asked.
``It is only for Chilean courts  to try events that occurred in Chile.''
Franco's reign ended in 1975.
Pinochet's family issued a statement Sunday calling the arrest ``an  insult'' and thanking the Chilean government, rightist politicians  and the military for their support.
In London, police guards were  deployed Sunday outside the London Clinic, where Pinochet is believed  to still be a patient.
About 100 Chilean demonstrators pleased with  the arrest gathered outside, chanting and waving placards bearing  faded black and white portraits with the caption ``Disappeared in  Chile.''
Across the Atlantic, the Chilean capital of Santiago was  the scene of dueling demonstrations Sunday, reflecting the long-standing  division of public opinion over Pinochet.
The rallies were mostly  peaceful, although riot police used tear gas and water cannons on  some pro-Pinochet protesters trying to break through police lines  into the British embassy on Sunday evening.
No arrests or injuries  were reported.
The envoy sent to London to argue for Pinochet's release,  Santiago Benadava, would offer only diplomatic advice, said Chilean  Foreign Minister Jose Miguel Insulza.
Any legal defense would be up  to Pinochet's family.
Pinochet's son, Augusto, said the family would  hire ``the best legal team available in London.''
Several right-wing  Chilean politicians, including some who held posts in the Pinochet  regime, also were flying to London to show their support to their  former boss.
Under extradition laws, Spain has 40 days from last Friday  to formally apply for extradition.
The final decision lies with British  Home Secretary Jack Straw.
There was no immediate word on when Pinochet  would be questioned.
But police sources, speaking on condition of  anonymity, said questioning was not expected for a week or two.
Pinochet  has been widely accused of running a ruthless regime marked by disappearances  and deaths of political opponents.
His arrest was prompted by applications  last week to question him by two Spanish judges investigating human  rights violations.
One of them, Baltasar Garzon, also wants to question  Pinochet about the disappearances of Chilean dissidents in Argentina.
The arrest warrant, however, referred only to questioning about allegations  that he killed Spaniards in Chile between 1973 and 1983.
In Chile,  seven Spaniards have been identified as missing or dead under the  Pinochet regime, including two Catholic priests and a U.N. official.
According to a Chilean government report, a total of 4,299 political  opponents died or disappeared during Pinochet's term.
Pinochet, commander-in-chief  of the Chilean army until March, has immunity from prosecution in  Chile as a senator-for-life under a new constitution that his government  crafted.
He is also covered under an amnesty for crimes committed  when most of the human rights abuses took place.
Margaret Thatcher entertained former Children dictator Gen. Augusto  Pinochet at her home two weeks before he was arrested in his bed in  a London hospital, the ex-prime minister's office said Tuesday, amid  growing diplomatic and domestic controversy over the move.
Pinochet,  who has vowed to fight attempts to extradite him to Spain on allegations  of murder, genocide and torture, had drinks with Lady Thatcher and  her husband, Denis, in their home in London's elite Belgravia district  four days before he was hospitalized for back surgery performed Oct.
9.
``She regarded it as a private meeting,'' said Mark Worthington,  spokesman for the Lady Thatcher, Conservative Party prime minister  from 1979-90.
The 82-year-old Pinochet was arrested Friday at a Spanish  magistrate's request.
In Conservative government days, Pinochet was  welcomed on regular visits that included tea with the prime minister.
He was the only Latin American leader to support Britain in its 1982  war against Argentina to reclaim the Falkland Islands.
Pinochet and  Lady Thatcher also implemented similar brands of right-wing economics.
The current visit is Pincohet's first since Prime Minister Tony Blair's  Labor Party administration was elected 18 months ago, ending 18 years  of Conservative Party rule.
Chile's ambassador delivered a formal  protest to the Foreign Office on Monday, saying Britain has violated  Pinochet's diplomatic immunity.
He arrived last month on a diplomatic  passport and is also a senator-for-life in Chile, which protects him  from prosecution there.
Pinochet's 17-year-rule was marked by torture  and other human rights abuses against political opponents in which,  the Chilean government has said, 4,299 people were killed or vanished.
He remained Chilean army commander-in-chief until March.
The magistrate  broadened his charges Monday to include killings of Chileans as well  for which there is no diplomatic immunity.
Chilean Ambassador Mario Artaza, himself an exile during Pinochet's  rule, said Chile had a duty to protect a citizen with diplomatic immunity  and senator status.
``We are not protecting the dictator of the '70s,''  Artaza said in a British Broadcasting Corp. radio interview Tuesday.
``What we are fighting for and discussing with the (British) government  is the special situation of a senator in our transition who many people  do not understand and many people don't like.''
``We're not discussing  his record during his period of dictatorship, that the present government  does not support at all,'' added the ambassador.
A Chilean specialist  in international law was traveling to London for further meetings  with British officials, Artaza said.
Pinochet, expected to be hospitalized  for perhaps two more weeks faces a long battle through British courts  to avoid extradition, questioning by two Spanish judges who instigated  the proceedings, and an appearance at London's Bow Street magistrate's  court.
British Conservative Party lawmakers accuse the Labor government  of ``gesture'' politics and pandering to the party's left-wing.
The Spanish and British governments appeared Wednesday to be seeking  shelter from the political storm brewing over the possible extradition  of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet to Spain.
``Despite everything  that has been written, this is not a decision for the British government  or the Spanish government,'' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said  in an interview published by a Spanish newspaper on Wednesday.
In  a similar vein, Spanish Foreign Ministry spokesman Joaquin Perez said  Wednesday: ``The government should not have any opinion about the  extradition.''
British police, acting on an international arrest warrant  from Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon on Friday, detained the ailing  general in the London clinic where he was recovering from back surgery.
The detention and the possible extradition of Pinochet to Spain to  stand trial for genocide, terrorism and torture during his 17-year  dictatorship was warmly welcomed by human rights activists worldwide.
But it sparked protests from the Chilean government, and fears it  could damage economic relations.
In 1997, seven years after Pinochet  left power, Spain was the biggest single investor in Chile, followed  closely by Britain.
Blair quoted in the El Mundo newspaper said that  Pinochet's detention was unrelated to his government's so-called Ethical  Foreign Policy, apparently ignoring pressure from leftists within  his Labor party to support moves to prosecute the former dictator.
``This is about two legal systems united by an extradition treaty  but nobody seems to understand this,'' he said.
Blair added that should  Home Secretary Jack Straw would use only strictly legal criteria and  act ``as if he were a judge,'' should he be required to make a decision  on an extradition request from Spain.
The tone of the British Prime  Minister's first public comment on the issue contrasted sharply with  Sunday's emotional statement from influential Trade Secretary Peter  Mandelson who said most Britons would find diplomatic immunity for  Pinochet ``gut-wrenching.''
The European extradition convention gives  Garzon 40 days to present a formal extradition request to the British  authorities via the Spanish government.
But while Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Maria Aznar has promised his government would rubber stamp the  process if it reaches his desk, he appears to be hoping he will never  have to do so.
Public prosecutors from Spain's National Court have  appealed the judicial investigations into human rights abuses in Chile  and Argentina that underpin Garzon's arrest warrant.
``Depending on  the result of the appeals it is possible that it (the extradition  request) will never reach the government so perhaps the government  will never have to pronounce on it,'' Aznar was quoted as saying in  Wednesday's edition of the Madrid newspaper El Pais.
The appeals argue  that crimes committed during Pinochet's 1973-1990 dictatorship are  none of Spain's business, and should be left to the Chilean or international  courts.
A ruling on the appeals is expected next week, and a decision  in their favor would nullify Garzon's extradition attempt.
A delegation of Chilean legislators lobbying against the possible  extradition of Augusto Pinochet to Spain to face trial, warned Thursday  that Chile was on the brink of political turmoil.
``There is a climate  of division, confrontation and instability in Chile,'' parliamentary  deputy Alberto Espina told reporters in Madrid after meeting the Chilean  ambassador.
Pinochet was arrested in London on Oct. 16 at the instigation  of Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garzon who is seeking to extradite  the former dictator on charges of genocide, terrorism and torture.
In Chile, the detention triggered both celebrations by relatives of  victims of Pinochet's 1973-1990 regime and protests from the retired  general's supporters.
Espina also warned that the issue was damaging  relations between Chile Spain and Britain.
Spain was the biggest single  investor in Chile last year, followed closely by Britain.
The deputy  arrived in Madrid late Wednesday accompanied by the senators Jovino  Movoa and Julio Lagos.
The delegation is an offshoot of a larger group  of Chilean parliamentarians currently protesting the detention in  London on behalf of the opposition parties Independent Democratic  Union and the National Renovation Party.
Espina, Movoa and Lagos were  hoping to talk to officials from the Spanish Foreign Ministry and  other government representatives.
``All we ask is that Spain stops  meddling in our internal affairs,'' Espina said, arguing that Chilean  problems should be dealt with by Chilean courts.
``We stopped being  a Spanish colony 188 years ago and we have no intention of becoming  one again,'' he added.
Government spokesman Josep Pique said Prime  Minister Jose Maria Aznar had no plans to meet the delegation, the  state-owned news agency EFE reported.
Aznar has promised his government  will rubber stamp a formal extradition request to the British government  if asked to do so by the judicial authorities.
But the extradition  attempt could be annulled by legal challenges in Spain well before  the deadline for presenting it in Britain.
The deadline is set for  coincidentally Pinochet's 83rd birthday.
On Thursday  the head prosecutor from the National Court set in motion appeals  against several rulings made by Judge Garzon related to Pinochet's  detention in the London clinic where he was recovering from back surgery.
The court's plenary is expected to meet next week to decide on an  earlier challenge of the Spanish judicial investigations into human  rights abuses in Chile and Argentina that underpin Garzon's arrest  warrant.
A ruling that the investigations are outside the jurisdiction  of Spanish law would made any extradition request difficult.
The decision  is likely to hang on how genocide and terrorism are interpreted, as  these crimes are specifically mentioned in the Spanish legal code.
Europe's top official said Friday that he hoped former Chilean dictator  Augusto Pinochet would be extradited to Spain to be tried for crimes  committed during his 17-year rule.
``Sometimes it should be made clear  that crimes, wherever they take place, cannot be left unpunished,''  European Commission President Jacques Santer said.
Pinochet was detained  by British police in London on Oct. 16 by request of a Spanish magistrate  as a first step toward his extradition to stand trial for genocide  and terrorism.
``The dictatorship caused great suffering and sent  many citizens into exile,'' Santer said, referring to the 1973-90  Pinochet regime.
Santer was speaking to reporters in the northern  Spanish city of Oviedo where he was due to receive the Prince of Asturias  one of the eight annual prizes named after  the heir to the Spanish throne.
Meanwhile, a Spanish newspaper reported  Friday that Pinochet is not fully aware of his predicament.
Daily  El Mundo said the ailing retired general's family and aides have been  shielding him from the details for fear he would fly into a rage that  would kill him.
Pinochet was detained in the London clinic while recovering  from back surgery.
El Mundo said its reporter accompanied Chilean  politicians seeking his release during a visit to the clinic Thursday.
The reporter said he talked briefly to Pinochet's wife, Lucia Hiriart,  and daughter Veronica.
``If Augusto knew the truth, he would have  an attack of rage and die,'' El Mundo quoted Hiriart as saying to  others while waiting for permission from Scotland Yard to visit her  husband on the eighth floor of the clinic.
She said she was particularly  concerned because he is also suffering from a urinary infection, heart  problems and diabetes, the newspaper reported.
El Mundo reported that  the family had asked police guards to stand outside the former dictator's  room and keep out of sight.
The paper said the room lacked television,  radio or telephone.
According to the report Pinochet was informed  of the arrest order from two policemen, but is convinced it was a  mistake and that he is protected by diplomatic immunity.
Meanwhile,  a Chilean television station reported Friday that a Chilean army officer  close to Pinochet told the former military chief about his situation  after flying to London Thursday.
TV13 reported that the unidentified  officer said Pinochet reacted calmly to the news imparted ``as one  soldier to another.''
The wife of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet appealed for  his release, saying he is too sick to be extradited to Spain to face  charges of genocide. ''
This is very painful for our family,'' a tearful  Lucia Pinochet told reporters late Friday outside the private London  Clinic, where her husband is under arrest as he recuperates from back  surgery. '
I would like to ask for compassion for a person who is very,  very, very, ill.''
Pinochet, 82, had surgery Oct. 9 for a herniated  disc, a painful spinal disorder which had hindered his movement.
He  was arrested Oct. 16 at the instigation of a Spanish magistrate seeking  to extradite him on charges of genocide, terrorism and torture.
The  Spanish warrant cited 94 victims, but could be broadened to include  some 3,000 people who were killed or disappeared during his 17-year-rule.
Chile argues that Pinochet must be released because as a senator he  and because he is in poor health.
Unconfirmed  media reports in Chile this week indicated that Pinochet, who has  worn a pacemaker for years and is diabetic, also has a urinary tract  infection.
There have also been reports that he is suffering from  depression.
In a separate attempt to block his extradition, lawyers  for the former strongman went to court Friday to argue that British  police acted illegally in accepting the Spanish warrant.
The case  resumes Monday.
Pinochet ruled from 1973 until 1990 but remained army  commander until last March.
Then, he moved to congress as a senator  for life, as permitted by the constitution his regime drafted.
The British and Spanish prime ministers said Sunday that the fate  of former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet is in the hands of  their judicial authorities and they will not interfere.
``Both myself  and Mr. Aznar agree this is not a matter for us to discuss,'' British  Prime Minister Tony Blair said, referring to Spanish leader Jose Maria  Aznar.
``I've avoided commenting on that judicial process and I don't  intend to do so.''
Aznar made similar comments when he meet journalists  on the margin of a European Union summit in this Alpine lakeside resort.
Pinochet is under arrest in a London hospital where he'd gone for  back surgery.
He was detained on a warrant from a Spanish magistrate  seeking to extradite him on charges of genocide, terrorism and torture  during his 1973-90 rule.
The Chilean government has urged Britain  to release Pinochet on humanitarian grounds, and argued that as a  senator, he is entitled to diplomatic immunity.
Aznar dismissed reports  that the bid to try Pinochet will damage Spain's relations with Latin  America.
``It's important we don't talk nonsense about this issue.
This is stupid.''
The Swiss government has ordered no investigation of possible bank  accounts belonging to former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, a  spokesman said Wednesday.
Weekend newspaper reports in Spain said  a Spanish judge who ordered Pinochet's arrest has issued a petition  aimed at freezing any accounts the 82-year-old general might have  in Luxembourg and Switzerland.
But government spokesman Achille Casanova  said no accounts have so far been frozen in Switzerland and no investigation  order has been given to federal banking authorities.
Pinochet has  been held at a London clinic since his arrest earlier this month.
Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garzon is seeking his extradition on charges  of genocide, torture and terrorism during his 17-year rule which ended  1990.
On Monday, Switzerland also requested Pinochet's arrest and  extradition on charges of murder, kidnapping and torture.
The move  followed a criminal complaint filed in Geneva last week by the widow  of Alexis Jaccard, a student of Swiss-Chilean dual nationality who  disappeared in May 1977.
Swiss authorities said the Spanish effort  to extradite Pinochet should be given priority.
A Spanish request  for legal assistance from Switzerland, made Friday, has been passed  on to Geneva authorities.
No details have been given of the content  of the Spanish request.
As his lawyers in London tried to quash a Spanish arrest warrant for  Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, efforts began  in Geneva and Paris to have him extradited.
In London, where Pinochet  has been under arrest in a clinic for the last 10 days, a phalanx  of British lawyers argued before the High Court of Justice that the  arrest order sent from Spain was illegal because the general, 82,  is not a Spanish citizen.
They also maintained that as a former head  of state, the general had diplomatic immunity for actions taken while  in office.
His lawyer, Clive Nicholls, said that if a bid to extradite  the general succeeded, by the same token Queen Elizabeth II could  be extradited to Argentina to face trial for the death of Argentine  soldiers in the Falklands war in 1982.
On the opposing side, Alun  Jones, a British government lawyer acting as prosecutor in the case,  defended the Spanish warrant, which led to the general's detention  in London.
The prosecutor argued that the the right-wing general was  responsible for killing at least 4,000 people and had set out ``to  Chilean nationals who did not share his  ideological values.''
After hearing the arguments in a court crowded  with Chilean exiles in the public gallery, Lord Bingham, Britain's  senior judge, said the court was expected to decide the matter on  Tuesday.
The Chilean air force has sent an ambulance plane to Britain  in hope of the general's early release.
But efforts to prevent that  gathered strength elsewhere in Europe.
In Geneva, a public prosecutor,  Bernard Bertossa, said Monday that he had issued a warrant for Pinochet's  arrest in connection with the kidnapping and presumed death of a Swiss-Chilean  citizen in 1977.
Bertossa said he had opened a judicial investigation  in response to a complaint by the widow of the victim, Alexei Jaccard,  who was 25 when he was tortured in Chile and subsequently disappeared.
The prosecutor said he was asking the Swiss federal government to  seek Pinochet's extradition from Britain to face trial in Geneva.
At the same time in Paris Monday, the families of three French citizens,  of whom two disappeared and one was killed in Chile during the 1973-90  dictatorship, filed suit in a French court.
In addition, a human rights  group in Paris said Monday that it had filed a suit with a Paris court  on behalf of Anne Marie Pesle, whose father, Etienne Pesle, disappeared  in Chile in 1973.
In Madrid, Baltasar Garzon, the Spanish investigating  magistrate who first obtained Pinochet's arrest in London, said he  had formally requested the governments of Switzerland and Luxemburg  to block bank accounts held by the general.
Court officials in Madrid  said Garzon wanted any accounts blocked with a view to their possible  use later as compensation to relatives of victims.
In London, British  officials keep insisting that Pinochet's case will be decided by the  courts and not politically, yet the issue has stirred intense political  activity both in Britain and in Chile.
Supporters and opponents of  the dictator have traveled to the London clinic where he is being  held.
From Chile have come six right-wing senators, the deputy foreign  minister, aides and legal experts who file in and out of the private  clinic in central London.
From Europe have come dozens of longtime  opponents of the general who were forced into exile after his 1973  coup against the elected Socialist president, Salvador Allende Gossens.
The exiles, along with others, stand daily outside the clinic holding  up photographs of missing relatives and shouting anti-Pinochet slogans.
On occasion there have been shouting matches between the two sides.
``He is ill, and in a few days he will be 83,'' Mariano Fernandez,  Chile's deputy foreign minister, said after visiting Pinochet who  had minor surgery for a back ailment.
After his surgery on Oct. 9,  the general was arrested by Scotland Yard during the night of Oct.
16.
The diplomatic and judicial entanglements that ensued now involve  at least five governments.
The political and legal imbroglio could  end if Britain's home secretary, Jack Straw, decides that the general  should be released on ``compassionate grounds'' because of his age  and failing health.
Last week he said that in exercising his powers  under the 1989 Extradition Act, he would consider whether the offenses  are of a ``political character'' and he would take into account ``any  compassionate circumstances.''
After the bombing of U.S. embassies in East Africa the U.S. on Aug. 20, 1998 made missile attacks on an Al-Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan and on a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan tenuously linked to Osama bin Laden.
In September the U.S. initiated legal action against a Sudanese arrested in Germany and in November charges were prepared against six men including bin Laden.
The U.S. had, in support of its case, documentary evidence and a cooperative former senior aide of bin Laden.
Meanwhile, authorities reported bin Laden agents active in Bangladesh and the Balkans and the Taliban government of Afghanistan proclaimed bin Laden "a man without sin.
Evidence shows Sudanese factory bombed by US is linked to bin Laden.
US prosecutors ask for an extension to extradite a bin Laden lieutenant.
FBI questions witnesses of Nairobi embassy blast, preparing for trial of 6 suspects.
The Taliban says the US is using bin Laden as an excuse to attack Afghanistan.
Goal of US August raid there was to kill bin Laden and his aides.
The Taliban declares bin Laden a free man, with no proof of anti-US terror.
2 arrested for articles inciting Taliban-style revolt in Bangladesh.
Bin Laden cell is in Albania and elsewhere in Europe.
Bin Laden aide informs for the US.
East African bin Laden cell has security woes in '97.
In the aftermath of the almost simultaneous bombings of U.S. embassies in East Africa, much has been learned of the terrorist network put together and financed by Saudi billionaire Osama bin Laden.
Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the bombings and U.S. cruise missile attack against a supposed terrorist camp in Afghanistan shortly after the bombings was an attempt not only to disrupt the terrorist network but to get bin Laden himself.
As the investigation into the bombings continues, more is being learned from seized computers and top aides turned informants.
Bin Laden remains in Afghanistan by permission of the Taliban.
Following the bombings of the embassies in Africa, the US began a full-scale assault on Osama bin Laden.
Attacked were a chemical plant in the Sudan and a camp in Afghanistan where he was believed to be, creating an assassination opportunity.
Evidence was gathered from a captured computer and an in-law who defected.
Suspects were identified and the FBI began to build a case in New York.
Extradition of a suspect from Germany was sought.
Reactions from Islamic nations varied: Afghanistan promised him safe haven; more liberal Bandladesh arrested pro-Taliban reporters; Albania feared it was an infiltration center for the rest of Europe, including Kosovo.
U.S. prosecutors have asked for a 20-day extension  to provide Germany with paperwork necessary to extradite a top lieutenant  of Saudi terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden, officials said Saturday.
Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, 40, of Sudan, has been jailed since his arrest  near Munich on Sept. 16 by Bavarian authorities acting on a U.S. warrant.
Under German law, U.S. officials have 40 days after the arrest to  turn over supporting evidence so a German court can rule on their  extradition request.
A Bavarian Justice Ministry spokesman, Gerhard  Zierl, said U.S. authorities a few days ago asked the court hearing  the case for an extra 20 days to provide the necessary material.
Quoting  unidentified Bavarian law enforcement sources, Focus newsmagazine  reported Saturday that the evidence turned over so far was not very  strong.
The magazine said much of it was based on the testimony of  an FBI informant, a former bin Laden associate, who made only vague  connections between Salim and terrorist activities.
Zierl declined  to comment on the report, but said U.S. authorities probably asked  for more time just a precautionary measure.
U.S. authorities charge  Salim helped finance, train and arm members of a terrorist organization,  including the alleged bombers of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
A criminal complaint unsealed Sept. 25 in U.S. District Court in New  York charges him with murder conspiracy and use of weapons of mass  destruction.
The Taliban's chief justice accused the United States on Wednesday  of looking for an ``excuse'' to launch another missile attack on his  war-shattered homeland.
And that excuse is Osama bin Laden, the man  Washington calls Enemy No. 1 and blames for the Aug. 7 bombings of  U.S. embassies in East Africa, Justice Noor Mohammed Saqib said an  interview with The Associated Press.
On Aug. 20 the United States  retaliated by firing Tomahawk missiles at suspected terrorist camps  in eastern Afghanistan, killing 26 people.
According to U.S. intelligence  sources, the camps were being used to train members of bin Laden's  al Qaeda terrorist group.
``America is looking for an excuse to fire  more rockets on our dear Afghanistan and that excuse is bin Laden,''  Saqib said.
Washington, which has posted a dlrs 5 million reward for  bin Laden's arrest, hasn't ruled out further attacks on Afghanistan.
Saqib, who heads a judicial inquiry established by the Taliban to  investigate the terrorism charges against bin Laden, says the United  States has become insecure.
``America fears its shadow ... in every  part of the world it is afraid and sees every danger connected to  bin Laden,'' he said in an interview in the Afghan capital of Kabul.
In Afghanistan, bin Laden is considered an honored guest by his Taliban  hosts.
They cite Afghan tradition, which demands the host guarantee  his guest protection.
So far Saqib says he has no evidence of bin  Laden's involvement in terrorist activities.
The Taliban have refused  to turn over bin Laden to the United States, but they say if there  is evidence they will try him under Islamic law.
In the 90 percent  of Afghanistan ruled by the Taliban a harsh brand of Islamic justice  has been imposed, including the death penalty.
``We want good relations  with the United States and all Muslim and non-Muslim countries, but  they have to respect our ways,'' he said.
Saqib said his inquiry will  wind up on Nov. 20 and if there is no evidence against bin Laden the  at least for the Taliban.
``Bin Laden is not  a sinful man ... America has been silent ... they have given no evidence,''  he said.
``It is too shameful for America who is now seen by all that  world to have no reason to go after bin Laden.''
FBI agents this week began questioning relatives  of the victims of the Aug. 7 U.S. Embassy bombing as well as the seriously  injured on request of the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern  District of New York, a U.S. official said Thursday.
The blast at  the embassy building in downtown Nairobi killed 213 people, 12 of  them Americans, and injured 5,400.
In an nearly simultaneous bombing  of the U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam in neighboring Tanzania, 11 people  were killed and 85 were injured, none of them Americans.
The official,  who could not be further identified, said the questioning was aimed  at gathering recorded testimony to be used by the prosecution in the  pre-sentencing phase of the trials of the six men indicted in connection  with the attack.
Wadih El Hage, Mohamed Sadeek Odeh and Mohamed Rashed  Daoud Al-'Owhali are being held by the U.S. District Court in the  Southern District of New York.
All three have pleaded innocent.
Fazul  Abdullah Mohammed is a fugitive.
Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, the  alleged mastermind of a conspiracy to attack U.S. targets around the  world, and Muhammad Atef, the alleged military commander of bin Laden's  terrorist organization, Al-Qaeda, were charged in a separate 238-page  indictment with murder and conspiracy in the bombings.
Bin Laden is  believed to be living in Afghanistan.
U.S. law provides for the trial  in the United States of those charged in terror attacks against American  citizens, even if carried out on foreign soil.
Police arrested two journalists and charged them with writing articles  to encourage Muslim youths to stage an Islamic revolution in Bangladesh  after the Taliban model in Afghanistan, a police officer said Thursday.
Mufti Abdul Hye and Manzoor Ahmed, editors at ``Jago Mujahid'' or  ``Wake Up Mujahid,'' a monthy magazine published from Dhaka, the Bangladeshi  capital, were jailed for a month shortly after their arrest on Wednesday.
They were arrested under a 1974 law that allows police to detain any  one for offenses related to national security, the officer said on  condition of anonymity.
Those arrested need not be taken to court  for trial for up to three months.
Police seized copies of the newspaper  for reproducing a foreign newspaper interview of Afghanistan-based  Saudi billionaire Osama Bin Laden, who has been accused by the United  States of masterminding bombing attacks on the U.S. embassies in Kenya  and Tanzania in August.
Under Taliban rules women may not study or  work outside their houses, and all kinds of light entertainment including  music are banned.
Men must grow beards of a certain length and criminals  are subjected to amputations and public executions Even though Bangladesh  is a predominantly Muslim country, it is governed by secular laws.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's liberal government hasn't recognized  the Taliban government in Afghanistan.
The man accused of orchestrating the U.S. embassy bombings in Tanzania  and Kenya was declared a free man Friday in Afghanistan, where he  has lived for years with the permission of the hard-line Islamic Taliban  militia.
The Taliban, who control about 90 percent of Afghanistan,  on Friday closed their three-week inquiry into allegations that Osama  bin Laden is waging a war of terror against the United States.
``It's  over, and America has not presented any evidence,'' Afghanistan's  chief justice, Noor Mohammed Saqib, told The Associated Press in an  interview at the Supreme Court building in the Afghan capital, Kabul.
``Without any evidence, bin Laden is a man without sin.
... He is  a free man.''
The Taliban have told bin Laden, however, that political  activity is banned and he has agreed to respect that, the Taliban  information minister said in a statement Friday.
The minister, Amir  Khan Muttaqi, also disputed U.S. assertions that bin Laden is a rich  man, saying the Saudi dissident has had his foreign assets frozen,  a claim not immediately corroborated.
Albania says it has uncovered a terrorist network operated by Osama  Bin Laden, the Islamic fundamentalist accused of masterminding the  August embassy bombings in Africa, and that it's members have infiltrated  other parts of Europe, The Sunday Times reported.
The newspaper quoted  Fatos Klosi, the head of Shik, the Albanian intelligence service,  as saying that Bin Laden's network had sent units to fight in Kosovo,  the neighboring Serbian province.
``Egyptians, Saudi Arabians, Algerians,  they come from several different  organizations,'' Klosi was quoted as telling The Sunday Times.
He  said he believed terrorists had already infiltrated other parts of  Europe from bases in Albania through a traffic in illegal immigrants,  who have been smuggled across the Mediterranean to Italy in huge numbers.
Interpol believes more than 100,000 blank Albanian passports were  stolen in riots last year, providing ample opportunity for terrorists  to acquire false papers, the newspaper said.
Apparent confirmation  of the Bin Laden's activities came earlier this month during the murder  trial of Claude Kader, 27, a French national and self-confessed member  of Bin Laden's Albanian network, the newspaper said.
Kader claimed  during the trial that he had visited Albania to recruit and arm fighters  for Kosovo, and that four of his associates were still at large.
Bin  Laden is believed to have established an Albanian operation in 1994  after telling the government that he was head of a wealthy Saudi humanitarian  agency wishing to help in Albania, the newspaper reported.
The United States has obtained new evidence to link the owner of a  Sudanese factory destroyed in a U.S. cruise missile strike last month  to a terrorist group backed by Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind  of the bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa, according to  U.S. intelligence officials.
The evidence, the officials said last  week, shows that Salih Idris, the owner of Al Shifa pharmaceutical  plant in Khartoum, has had financial dealings with members of Islamic  Jihad, an Egypt-based group responsible for the assassination there  of President Anwar Sadat in 1981.
Islamic Jihad, in turn, receives  money and sponsorship from bin Laden and has been absorbed into his  terror network, the officials added.
This evidence was uncovered after  the United States destroyed Idris' factory in a missile attack following  the bombing of the U.S. embassies, the officials said.
A spokesman  for Idris denied the accusations, saying Idris had no ties either  to bin Laden or to any Islamic terrorist groups.
In a statement provided  by Tim Pendry, his London-based adviser, Idris said: ``I have absolutely  no relationship with any Islamic terrorist organization anywhere in  the world.
I have never met Mr. bin Laden, I have never spoken with  him, I have never had any financial or business relationship with  him, nor knowingly with anyone acting as his agent.''
U.S. officials  say they have also received new reports of an increase in the Iraqi  presence in Sudan since the missile attack.
Officials said they were  not certain what the Iraqis were now doing in Khartoum.
But intelligence  agents previously obtained evidence that the manager of the Shifa  plant made frequent trips to Iraq, where he visited the head of the  chemical weapons program.
In addition, a soil sample that the CIA  clandestinely took at the Shifa plant showed the presence of a chemical  used in the production of VX nerve gas, a process used only by Iraq.
The new evidence comes as President Clinton faces attack over his  decision to strike the Shifa plant.
Some State Department and CIA  officials have objected to the decision, arguing that it was based  on tenuous evidence of a connection between the plant and bin Laden.
The criticism is also based on the suspicion that the United States  has poor data on Sudan, as the CIA station there has been closed since  1995 and the entire U.S. Embassy since 1996.
In addition, more than  100 intelligence reports from a CIA informer in Sudan were withdrawn  in January 1996 because they proved to be fabrications.
That year  a second informer warned of several terrorist threats, including one  against Anthony Lake, then the national security adviser, but his  reports proved impossible to confirm.
Senior administration officials  say that at the time of the cruise missile strike they had evidence  of Sudan's involvement with bin Laden in a chemical weapons program,  but no direct evidence linking the Shifa plant directly to that effort.
Now they say that the new evidence against Idris has confirmed their  initial suspicions about Al Shifa.
At the time of the Aug. 20 cruise  missile attack, Clinton administration officials acknowledge, they  did not know that Idris owned the Shifa factory.
The CIA, which had  begun to scrutinize the plant 18 months earlier, believed the plant's  ownership was irrelevant.
``What we knew about the ownership was that  a lot of it couldn't be reliably established,'' said one senior U.S.  intelligence official.
Still, after the missile strike, when Idris  was publicly identified as the owner, U.S. intelligence began to investigate  his possible connections to chemical weapons and terrorism.
A Sudanese  expatriate who now lives in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, Idris, 46, was previously  a senior manager of the National Commercial Bank of Saudi Arabia.
He bought the Shifa plant in March.
Officials say U.S. intelligence  has received reports that Idris launders money for international Islamic  groups, and that he also has a stake in a company in Sudan that is  40 percent owned by the Military Industrial Corporation, a government  entity that the United States says controls Sudanese chemical weapons  development.
Bin Laden has helped finance the Military Industrial  Corp. in his effort to use Sudan as a base for chemical weapons production,  and talked to Sudanese leaders about testing poisonous gases against  U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, according to U.S. intelligence.
But Pendry  denied that Idris owned any businesses with the Military Industrial  Corp.
U.S. intelligence officials declined to provide details about  the reports of Idris' financial dealings with members of Islamic Jihad.
But they said that Islamic Jihad had now been consolidated into bin  Laden's terrorist campaign.
One of the clear but unstated objectives of last August's raid on  Afghanistan was to kill Osama bin Laden and as many of his lieutenants  as possible, administration officials now acknowledge.
According to  the officials, White House lawyers conducted a secret review in the  months before the attack and concluded that such operations are legal  under U.S. and international law.
The officials said the raid was  timed so that more than 70 cruise missiles would hit bin Laden's camps  at the moment when the Central Intelligence Agency believed he would  be meeting there with his chief operatives.
A 1976 executive order  bars anyone working for the U.S. government from plotting or carrying  out assassinations.
But officials said the White House legal opinion  drafted before the Afghan strike asserts that the president has authority  to target the ``infrastructure'' of terrorist groups that are attacking  Americans.
A top U.S. counterterrorism official said this week that  the infrastructure of bin Laden's group is mostly ``human.''
``As  we said from the time of the Aug. 20 strike, the objective was to  disrupt the training, organization and infrastructure of the bin Laden  terrorist network at the Khost camps,'' said David C. Leavy, a spokesman  for the National Security Council at the White House.
Targeting infrastructure,  officials acknowledged, can also mean destroying the leadership of  a terrorist group.
``Command and control of an enemy is a justifiable  target,'' Leavy said.
Senior administration officials said they never  discussed killing bin Laden in their planning sessions.
His death,  they said in interviews after the attack, would simply have been a  side benefit.
U.S. intelligence officials say they now believe that  bin Laden was in the camp on the day of the attack, but he appears  to have left unscathed before the missiles hit.
Officials said there  were reports that at least one of his senior lieutenants may have  died in the attack, and that total casualties in the complex were  between 50 and 100.
Administration spokesmen have drawn a distinction  between attempting to kill a specific person like bin Laden and attacking  a group of people who command a terrorist organization.
Administration  officials have denied since August that the raid was intended to kill  bin Laden, a Saudi exile who has been charged by federal prosecutors  with leading a global war against U.S. interests.
He has been linked  to the Aug. 7 bombing of two U.S. embassies in East Africa.
But a  less subtle explanation was offered on Oct. 13 by Defense Secretary  William Cohen, who said during a visit to Saudi Arabia that the United  States had been ``going after'' bin Laden and his colleagues.
``We  weren't quite successful,'' Cohen continued, ``but we sent a message.''
Kenneth Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said the secretary had not  retracted his statements.
The Los Angeles Times recently reported  that the administration believed that it had a legal right to use  deadly force against terrorist leaders.
Bin Laden's organization was  a significant concern for the Clinton administration even before the  bombing of the U.S. embassies in East Africa.
Last spring, officials  said, U.S. intelligence considered a daring raid into Afghanistan  to capture the Saudi exile.
Officials said that at roughly the same  time, the White House drafted the legal justification for military  attacks against a terrorist leadership.
That review, officials said,  provided the legal basis in August to fire cruise missiles into the  meeting at which it was believed bin Laden and his lieutenants would  be gathered.
The review, by the National Security Council, was the  basis for saying this operation did not violate the presidential order  banning assassinations.
That ban was imposed by President Ford in  1975, after congressional investigators uncovered evidence that the  CIA had plotted to assassinate Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, and  others.
The order said: ``No person employed by, or acting on behalf  of the United States government shall engage in, or conspire to engage  in, assassination.''
While it is, on its face, a sweeping and unqualified  ban, it has been subject to interpretation and intense debate over  the years.
In 1986, the Reagan administration responded to a terrorist  attack against U.S. soldiers in Germany with a bombing raid on Libya.
The targets included the residence of the Libyan leader, Moammar Gadhafi.
And in the Gulf War, U.S. forces used powerful bombs in an attempt  to kill Saddam Hussein, the president of Iraq.
The legal review conducted  by the White House would appear to provide a precedent for future  operations in similar circumstances.
Sometime in the summer of 1997, an operative for Osama bin Laden sat  down at his personal computer in a hideaway in Kenya.
He was worried,  he wrote in an angry dispatch, about the security of the ``East Africa  network'' of bin Laden, the Saudi exile accused of masterminding a  worldwide terrorist conspiracy against Americans.
The organization,  the author complained, had declared war against the United States,  yet he had learned of that only from the news media.
The writer, who  federal authorities believe was Haroun Fazil, who was to become one  of the central suspects in the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi  a year later, noted with alarm British press reports about the arrest  of an aide to bin Laden.
Striking almost bureaucratic tones, he said  he was worried that ``an important man with close links'' to bin Laden,  seemed to have ``fallen into the enemy's hands.''
He said the Americans  were breathing down the necks of his associates in Nairobi and that  he had to take precautions.
``The cell is at 100 percent danger,''  the operative warned.
The letter, an extraordinary bit of digital  evidence in a cloak-and-dagger case, was retrieved from a computer  in a house where Fazil had been staying, according to papers filed  in U.S. District Court in New York City.
The papers said the computer  was seized in August 1997 in a raid by Kenyan authorities that was  attended by an FBI agent.
The documents did not make clear whether  the FBI had translated and read the document before or after the bombings  of the U.S. Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Aug.
7 of this year.
The timing is potentially important because there  have been mounting questions since the bombings about whether the  United States adequately followed up warnings of a possible terrorist  attack on American targets in Kenya.
Officials of the FBI and the  U.S. attorney's office in New York City refused to say Tuesday night  at what point FBI agents learned of the computer file, nor would they  make any other comment.
Fazil eluded American investigators after  the bombing as he traveled from Kenya to his home in the Comoros Islands  and then to the Middle East.
He remains a fugitive.
The dispatch provides  a remarkable insight into the workings of a terrorist network in the  twilight of the 20th century.
The author talks of how he and his fellow  operatives follow events on CNN and use the Internet to communicate.
He refers to himself as the media information officer of the East  Africa cell and complains that he is not being kept in the loop on  big decisions.
Along the way, in an almost casual fashion, the document  seems to confirm two of the central charges of the federal case against  bin Laden: That he had planted a terrorist cell in Nairobi and that  his operatives carried out another of the crimes laid at bin Laden's  the attacks on American soldiers in  Somalia in 1993 and 1994.
The writer of the document warned that the  followers of bin Laden, whom he referred to as ``the sheik,'' had  ``become America's primary target.''
He said his comrades in East  Africa ``should know that there is an American-Kenyan-Egyptian intelligence  activity in Nairobi aiming to identify the names and residences of  the members who are associated with the sheik since America knows  well that the youth who lived in Somalia and were members of the sheik's  cell are the ones who killed Americans in Somalia.''
``They know that  since Kenya was the main gateway for those members, there must be  a center in Kenya,'' he wrote, concluding: ``We are really in danger.''
The government has asserted that one of Fazil's duties was to prepare  and transmit reports to bin Laden and his top lieutenants.
Federal  authorities said that Khalid al Fawwaz, a London-based associate of  bin Laden, directed Fazil to ``report periodically to bin Laden about  the ``security'' situation of the cell.
Fawwaz, who served as an informal  press spokesman for bin Laden in London, was arrested by British authorities  in September after the embassy bombings.
He has denied any connection  to terrorist activities.
A translation of the report was part of a  package of documents American prosecutors have sent to Britain to  support the extradition of Fawwaz for trial in New York.
It is not  clear from the materials whether the report in the computer was forwarded  to bin Laden.
The documents, which were initially filed in secret,  include a federal complaint that accuses Fawwaz of conspiring with  bin Laden to kill Americans overseas.
A second count charges him with  soliciting others to do so.
The report made clear that the organization  was being run on a shoestring.
Its author wrote that his mother has  fallen ill, and that he would like to return to his homeland for a  visit.
``What do you think?
Keep in mind we only have $500.''
He repeatedly  expressed his fears of American intelligence, which he believed was  in the midst of a worldwide search for bin Laden and his associates.
``There is a war and the situation is dangerous,'' he said.
He wrote  that American forces kidnapped anyone who threatened the national  security or American citizens.
The author noted with alarm a recent  CIA operation in which a man accused of shooting agency employees  had been lured across the border in Pakistan and returned to the United  States for trial.
According to federal authorities, Fazil went on  to play a pivotal role in the bombing of the Nairobi embassy.
Prosecutors  assert that he rented the villa where the bomb was assembled and surveyed  the embassy's security precautions.
On Aug. 7, they charge, Fazil  drove a pickup truck to the embassy, leading the way for a vehicle  carrying the bomb that killed more than 200 people, including 12 Americans.
The author of the report said that he stood ready to ``fight the forces  of atheism and dictators who wreaked havoc on earth.''
He said that  the group did not have to inform its Nairobi-based operatives of all  its global plans, but they needed enough warning to go ``underground  for a while'' if authorities intensified the pressure in Nairobi.
``We, the East Africa cell members, do not want to know about the  operations plans,'' he wrote, `` since we are just implementers.''
If Osama bin Laden ever stands trial in New York for the bombings  of the U.S. embassies in Africa and other acts of terror, it is already  clear who prosecutors will call as a chief witness: One of his senior  aides who has been talking to U.S. investigators for two years.
The  government has identified the aide in court papers with the pseudonym  CS-1, saying the person pleaded guilty to terrorism charges in a secret  proceeding in U.S. district court in Manhattan.
According to the government,  the informant worked closely with bin Laden from 1989 to 1996, a period  when prosecutors assert that bin Laden was ordering deadly attacks  on U.S. soldiers in Somalia and elsewhere.
From the court papers filed  in the investigation of the embassy bombings in East Africa in August,  it is clear that the informant has provided crucial information to  federal investigators.
They have cited the source in the papers filed  to support the extradition of two associates of bin Laden who are  under arrest in Germany and Britain.
Bin Laden, a Saudi exile, is  thought to be living in Afghanistan.
The source is also the basis  for many of the significant charges in the indictment against bin  Laden himself, including the assertion that he directed the attacks  on U.S. soldiers in Somalia and that he attempted to obtain nuclear  weapons.
It is not known whether the source is in custody somewhere,  or hiding under government protection.
As recently as 11 days ago,  records show, the source swore to a 5-page affidavit before a New  York notary summarizing his allegations against bin Laden.
Government  officials adamantly declined to say anything about the identity of  CS-1, which stands for ``confidential source.''
But at least one operative  of bin Laden's group in East Africa concluded more than a year ago  that he knew the identity of a crucial turncoat: Sidi Tayyib, a businessman  who was married to one of bin Laden's relatives.
The operative's concerns  were inflamed by a report in a British newspaper that Tayyib was cooperating  with Saudi and U.S. authorities.
In an August, 1997 article, The Daily  Telegraph said Tayyib had been in custody in Saudi Arabia since May  and had given intelligence officials details of bin Laden's bank accounts  and businesses.
The news of Tayyib's possible defection, the East  African operative wrote in a report apparently intended for the group's  commanders, ``almost made me explode.
``An important man with close  links to'' bin Laden ``seems to have fallen into the enemy's hands,  and we have to take all the appropriate security precautions against  that,'' the operative, Haroun Fazil, wrote in his summary of security  concerns.
Fazil has since been charged in the embassy attacks and  remains at large.
The report was typed on a computer seized last year  by Kenyan authorities, according to a government filing last week  in U.S. district court in Manhattan.
Thus far, U.S. prosecutors have  charged at least six members of bin Laden's organization with terrorist  activities or conspiracy.
In one recent filing, they said their case  will in part be ``based on the testimony'' of the confidential source,  suggesting that the informant has agreed to testify at any trial of  bin Laden or his associates.
The arrangement appears to have resulted  from a plea bargain in which the source is cooperating in hopes of  receiving a lesser sentence.
There is no indication that the source  has yet been sentenced and it seems likely that sentencing would take  place after the investigation and ensuing trials are complete.
In  the affidavit prepared last week, the source acknowledged pleading  guilty to terrorism charges in the United States and said they stemmed  from attacks on U.S. targets, which were not specifically identified.
The source described taking ``an oath of allegiance'' to follow bin  Laden's orders, and gave a detailed account of bin Laden's group,  including its history and inner workings.
The source told of private  statements by bin Laden to other al Qaeda members, encouraging them  to attack U.S. troops and other citizens stationed in the Middle East  and Africa.
``I either heard these statements myself,'' the source  said, ``or I read them or learned of them from other al Qaeda members.''
The government has also said in other court papers that the source  helped identify bin Laden's signature on a 1996 document urging Muslims  to kill Americans.
Tayyib's whereabouts are unknown and he could not  be reached for comment.
In a dispute over a new collective bargaining agreement the National Basketball Association owners declared a lockout on July 1, 1998.
They wanted to discard a clause in the old agreement allowing teams to pay their own free agents whatever they wanted, substituting a hard salary cap.
The players wanted to keep earning as much as possible.
On Oct. 5 all 114 preseason games were cancelled.
The players then proposed a 50% tax on salaries above $18 million that the owners rejected.
On Oct. 13 the NBA cancelled the first two weeks of the regular season.
By Oct. 21 the entire season seemed in jeopardy in the interests of the best paid.
The Larry Bird exception has been used to pay some NBA players much more than the salary cap allows.
Stalled labor dispute over NBA salaries cancels preseason games and threatens regular season games.
NBA owners and players plan meeting, which is unsuccessful.
Players submit proposal at next meeting.
Owners to respond by Fri.
First 2 weeks of the season, 99 games, are cancelled.
An arbitrator will decide on Mon. whether or not NBA players with guaranteed salary contracts should be paid during the owners' lockout.
As the NBA labor battle goes on, most, if not all, season games may be cancelled.
Lesser paid players may suffer if union doesn't survive.
The National Basketball Association joined the NHL, the NFL and baseball when it canceled first the preseason games then two weeks of regular season.
In litigation that is complicated by a dispute over the distribution of nearly $2 billion in league income, the main sticking point is the owner's insistence on a salary cap without exceptions.
Top players are avoiding discussion of the Larry Bird exception, which allows a player to secure any amount he wants in resigning with his current team except as it applies to their taxation proposal.
Also pending is an arbiter's decision as to whether players will be paid during the lockout.
In a dispute between the owners and NBA players over how to divide the $2 billion in league-wide income, all preseason and the first 99 1998-1999 regular season games were cancelled.
The Larry Bird exception, a clause in the old agreement that allowed teams to pay their own free agents any amount, regardless of salary-cap rules, is the major issue.
The owners want a restricted salary cap.
The players have proposed a superstar tax, and the owners have presented a counter proposal, but negotiations have stalled.
Meanwhile, both sides are awaiting a ruling by arbitrator Feerick on whether $800 million in guaranteed salaries will be paid during the lockout.
In a critical ruling for the North American National Basketball Association  and the players' union, arbitrator John Feerick decides Monday whether  more than 200 players with guaranteed contracts should be paid during  the lockout.
If the players win, the owners will be liable for about  dlrs 800 million in guaranteed salaries, although they have vowed  to appeal if they lose.
The league already has sued the players over  Feerick's jurisdiction.
``If we win, I think it just emboldens the  spirit and resolve of the players,'' union director Billy Hunter said.
``But I don't think there will be anybody celebrating because there's  no guarantee that it will end the lockout.
``It only means they have  to pay some 200 players, and they've indicated to us their intent  to file an immediate appeal and take it as far as they have to in  order to avoid payment.
``So even if he does rule in our favor, at  most it's a hollow victory.
The players aren't going to get paid Nov.
15 in any circumstance,'' Hunter said.
If the owners win, it will  remove the last wild card the players had been holding.
The sides  have not negotiated since last Tuesday, when the union proposed a  superstar tax on the highest contracts.
The league made a counterproposal  Friday, asking that the tax be imposed with a much lower threshold.
Hunter dismissed the league's latest proposal on Friday afternoon,  then said both sides would be best served by awaiting Feerick's ruling.
It's unlikely any negotiations will be held this week, since the union  is holding a meeting for all NBA players and the agents advisory committee  in Las Vegas from Wednesday through Friday.
``We've got to get a sense  of where the players are, what they consider to be reasonable and  what they're willing to do in order to get the season to commence,''  Hunter said.
The union filed a grievance with Feerick before the lockout  was imposed July 1 over the owners' announcement June 29 that they  would not honor guaranteed deals.
In a six-day hearing over the summer,  the union argued that owners should have protected themselves from  being liable for guaranteed salaries during a work stoppage by inserting  lockout language into the standard player contract.
The Sacramento  Kings inserted a lockout clause into center Olden Polynice's contract  in 1994, and it was approved by the league.
The union used the existence  of that clause to argue that all the other teams should have protected  themselves similarly.
Most players are due to receive their first  paychecks Nov. 15, although a dozen or so had clauses entitling them  to be paid over the summer.
None has received a paycheck.
The NBA  argued that a tenet of labor law allows employers to withhold pay  from employees during a lockout.
The league also called former union  director Simon Gourdine to testify.
He said it was his understanding  when he negotiated the old labor agreement in 1995 that players would  not be paid if the owners chose to reopen the agreement and impose  a lockout.
In a critical ruling for the North American National Basketball Association  and the players' union, arbitrator John Feerick decides Monday whether  more than 200 players with guaranteed contracts should be paid during  the lockout.
If the players win, the owners will be liable for about  dlrs 800 million in guaranteed salaries, although they have vowed  to appeal if they lose.
The league already has sued the players over  Feerick's jurisdiction.
``If we win, I think it just emboldens the  spirit and resolve of the players,'' union director Billy Hunter said.
``But I don't think there will be anybody celebrating because there's  no guarantee that it will end the lockout.
``It only means they have  to pay some 200 players, and they've indicated to us their intent  to file an immediate appeal and take it as far as they have to in  order to avoid payment.
``So even if he does rule in our favor, at  most it's a hollow victory.
The players aren't going to get paid Nov.
15 in any circumstance,'' Hunter said.
If the owners win, it will  remove the last wild card the players had been holding.
The sides  have not negotiated since last Tuesday, when the union proposed a  superstar tax on the highest contracts.
The league made a counterproposal  Friday, asking that the tax be imposed with a much lower threshold.
Hunter dismissed the league's latest proposal on Friday afternoon,  then said both sides would be best served by awaiting Feerick's ruling.
It's unlikely any negotiations will be held this week, since the union  is holding a meeting for all NBA players and the agents advisory committee  in Las Vegas from Wednesday through Friday.
``We've got to get a sense  of where the players are, what they consider to be reasonable and  what they're willing to do in order to get the season to commence,''  Hunter said.
The union filed a grievance with Feerick before the lockout  was imposed July 1 over the owners' announcement June 29 that they  would not honor guaranteed deals.
In a six-day hearing over the summer,  the union argued that owners should have protected themselves from  being liable for guaranteed salaries during a work stoppage by inserting  lockout language into the standard player contract.
The Sacramento  Kings inserted a lockout clause into center Olden Polynice's contract  in 1994, and it was approved by the league.
The union used the existence  of that clause to argue that all the other teams should have protected  themselves similarly.
Most players are due to receive their first  paychecks Nov. 15, although a dozen or so had clauses entitling them  to be paid over the summer.
None has received a paycheck.
The NBA  argued that a tenet of labor law allows employers to withhold pay  from employees during a lockout.
The league also called former union  director Simon Gourdine to testify, but Feerick upheld union objections  and prohibited Gourdine from saying whether it was his understanding  when he negotiated the old labor agreement in 1995 that players would  not be paid if the owners chose to reopen the agreement and impose  a lockout.
He was the classic small-town prodigy, with the creativity of a big-city  profiteer.
When there was no shot to take, he invented a new one.
When there was no one to pass to, he reconfigured the play until a  teammate was open.
Larry Bird, in the Indiana countryside or inside  Boston Garden, was a luminous exception to the governing rule.
That  is why, six years after his retirement from the National Basketball  Association, his name is again basketball's most prominent, beginning  with his induction to the Hall of Fame before 7,000 Bird watchers  at the Civic Center here on Friday night.
Deservedly enshrined as  forever exceptional, he again becomes Bird, the exception, the case  study for a contentious and potentially disastrous labor war.
``No,  not really,'' Bird said, when I asked whether he is troubled by the  likelihood of his legendary name soon representing a symbol of greed  to unsympathetic millions.
``There's always a player's name attached  to these things.
I know at the time I was very happy about it.''
That  would have been 1988, when the Celtics wanted to compensate Bird with  a $4.9 million bonus to push through his back pain, go on as their  savior.
Three years later, in a contract arbitration involving the  Knicks' Patrick Ewing, the agent David Falk would contend that the  NBA conspired with the Celtics to circumvent the salary cap, in order  to satisfy Bird.
Alan Greenspan, I am sure, would agree that this  salary cap is convoluted enough to give anyone a headache, so let's  just say it is a cap that does not exist when a team is negotiating  with one of its own.
The process of unsealing the cap to re-sign a  particular player eventually became known as making use of the Larry  Bird exception.
And that is where we stand, as this onetime exception  has become the very expensive rule the owners don't want to play by  anymore.
``I can understand both sides,'' said Bird, safely in the  middle, between Bird, the former exception, and Bird, the present  Indiana Pacers' coach.
``Without getting into the exception, I think  it's very important for players to stay in the same place.''
Important,  he meant, for franchise stability and fan identification.
``You have  a son who is 7 years old, he goes from 7 to 17 in the 10 years you've  played,'' Bird said.
``A lot of people in Boston told me that they  had followed me, from the time they were very young to when they were  in college.''
The Bird years numbered only three Celtics championships,  but he was the best player pro basketball's most famous team ever  had.
He and Magic Johnson created a basketball renaissance that began  during a college title showdown in Salt Lake City and spread worldwide,  like an infectious smile.
They stood for the pass, for team play,  but now their decade of selflessness has given way to one of selfishness.
The NBA of Michael Jordan reached greater heights than anyone imagined  it could, but it is a league that now suffers from a sickness of the  soul.
``If Larry and Magic hadn't done what they did, we might not  survive what we're about to go through,'' said Bill Fitch, Bird's  first Celtics coach, who, with Bill Walton, stood with him on the  night that, he said, gave closure to his playing career.
The owners,  as always, are exaggerating their misery, but this time, it is much  easier to not root for the players.
The president of the union is  Ewing, who one day commands players to boycott the world championships  because the NBA's corporate fingerprints are on them, then the next  day helps himself to some television commentary work for David Stern's  women's annex.
Ewing leads the fight to protect the $100 million contracts  for 21-year-olds who have achieved not a single playoff victory, linked  to the big payoffs for agents like his friend Falk.
The battle is  waged in the name of a salary cap that makes exceptions of the unexceptional,  rewards everyone as if they were Bird.
``I believe that in any field  there has to be an allowance for the truly special ones,'' Walton  said.
``But that group is very small.
When I was growing up in this  sport, the only players who got the recognition were the champions,  the ones who always made you feel good about the game, about sports.
That's how Larry and Magic played, always dreaming of the special  team.
It wasn't about hype, about money.''
That is not quite the case,  nor should it have been.
Bird was a businessman's ball player from  the day he arrived, with his flannel shirts and blue-collar ethic.
He hired the late Bob Woolf, one of the original heavy-hitting agents,  and got himself a record rookie contract.
Then he went out and turned  a 29-victory catastrophe into a 61-victory contender.
A rare Bird,  an honest exception to the rule.
In a decision that will almost certainly lead to the first work stoppage  in National Basketball Association history, the league Monday announced  the cancellation of all 114 preseason games.
Citing stalled negotiations  with the Players Association over a new collective bargaining agreement,  league officials said they would decide next week whether to cancel  the first week of regular season games.
While the decision had been  expected for 10 days, it nonetheless sent a strong signal that the  owners and players will probably be willing to cancel at least part  of the regular season in order to settle their labor dispute.
Both  sides agree that it would take at least three weeks to hold abbreviated  training camps and sign over 200 free agents to new contracts.
Privately,  officials on both sides do not believe the season will start as scheduled  on Nov. 3 or even before December.
Unlike Major League Baseball, the  National Football League and the National Hockey League, the NBA has  never lost a regular-season game to labor strife.
``Since we're not  even negotiating, you have to conclude it's very likely that we're  going miss some part of the regular season,'' deputy commissioner  Russ Granik said Monday night.
``We'll try and defer any decisions  until the last minute, but right now it does not look good.''
The  their first official bargaining  session since Aug. 6.
Commissioner David Stern and a group of owners  walked out of a meeting after dismissing the merits of a new proposal  from the players.
Neither Granik nor players association executive  director Billy Hunter sounded as if this week's meeting would go a  long way toward the signing of a new agreement _ the precursor to  playing again.
``I don't think you have any choice but to miss games  at this point,'' Hunter said.
``In fact, I think the they've intended  it all along.
They've locked us out, they've refused to negotiate  and they've given us a proposal that's ludicrous.''
Not only are both  sides still awaiting the outcome of an arbitration decision that is  due before Oct. 18 - the Fordham Law School dean John Feerick will  rule whether or not more than 200 players with $800 million in guaranteed  contracts should be paid during the lockout _ but the owners and players  also are making time to win public opinion before they test their  fans' loyalties by canceling games.
Monday in 11 cities throughout  the country, the players are holding make-shift press conferences  at training-camp venues, NBA arenas and gymnasiums.
Patrick Ewing,  the union president, and several teammates will speak at SUNY-Purchase  in Purchase, N.Y., where the Knicks train during the season.
With  training camp originally scheduled to open on Oct. 6, the message  from the players is clear: if the owners would call an end to the  lockout, we would be ready to play today.
About 100 players are expected  to attend, speak and sign autographs for fans afterward.
``I wish  they would put their energies into trying to negotiate a deal rather  than the various other things that they've been doing,'' Granik said.
The dispute is essentially over how the owners and players will judiciously  divvy up $2 billion in income.
It began last year with the contention  by the owners that their employees were receiving more than their  fair share of the pot.
The owners were allowed to terminate the current  agreement because of a clause that enabled them to do so after player  salaries reached 53.8 percent of total basketball-related income.
The owners say that figure is currently hovering around 57.1 percent.
Though many economic issues need to be resolved, the main point of  contention since the labor agreement expired and the owners declared  a lockout on July 1 has been a clause which allows teams to pay their  own free agents whatever they want, regardless of salary-cap rules  governing the NBA's 29 teams.
Called the Larry Bird exception, it  was created to allow the Hall of Fame Boston Celtics forward to re-sign  with the Celtics near the end of his career.
Michael Jordan exercised  the clause the last two years with the Chicago Bulls, earning more  than $30 million per season _ figures more than $5 million more what  a team is allowed to spend on all its players.
But with exorbitant  salaries paid to several unproven stars over the last few years and  $100 million deals sprouting up routinely, the owners are determined  to swing the income pendulum back toward themselves by enforcing a  restricted salary cap _ a hard cap _ and putting a ceiling on how  much one player could earn.
``Last year, the players received about  $1 billion dollars in salaries and benefits and we have made proposals  that are guaranteed to increase that number by 20 percent over the  next four years,'' Granik said in a prepared statement.
``Our proposals  would result in an average player salary of more than $3.1 million  and a minimum salary for 10-year veterans of $750,000.
Unfortunately,  the union leadership has been unwilling to give any serious consideration  to what we have offered.''
Hunter labeled those claims as optimistic  projections, and shot down a number of new proposals presented to  the players on Sept. 25.
``If they had left the current deal in place,  we would have gotten much of that anyway,'' he added.
``All we're  saying is, we're not in position to accept a hard cap.''
Monday's  decision to cancel the preseason came less than two weeks after the  NBA indefinitely postponed training camp and canceled the first week  of exhibition games.
Through tickets sales alone, Granik estimated  that losing the exhibition season would cost the league between $35  million and $40 million.
Decisions about the cancellations of regular  season games are expected to be made next week, he added.
A league  official said the games would be canceled in blocks of one or two  weeks, depending upon circumstances regarding negotiations.
Thursday's  bargaining session has suddenly become the last hope at starting the  season on time.
``Hurdles could be overcome very quickly, but I have  no reason to believe they will on Thursday,'' Granik said.
Added Hunter:  ``Of course they don't expect much to get done.
When Russ and David  decide the negotiations are going to be real and substantive, then  something will happen.
What they're banking on now is that the players  are going to miss paychecks and cave in November.
It's as if they've  ingested something that has to pass.
And once it passes, then they'll  negotiate.''
Patrick Ewing did not want to sound like a striking longshoreman demanding  health benefits.
``I'm not going to try and put it in dollars and  cents.''
But Ewing, president of the National Basketball Association  Players Association, played the public-relations game Tuesday by expounding  on the themes of labor unrest: strong-willed unity and short-sighted  proposals.
On the day when training camps were scheduled to begin,  players from across the country held news conferences in 14 NBA cities  to proclaim themselves ready to practice for the regular season.
``We  want to show the public that we, as players, want to play,'' said  Ewing, who was flanked by five teammates.
``Today is supposed to be  the start of training camp.
We want to practice and we want the season  to start.
But unfortunately, the owners have locked us out and the  season has been postponed.''
The owners and players are scheduled  hold their first bargaining session since Aug. 6 on Thursday in Manhattan.
Neither side is predicting progress toward signing a new collective  bargaining agreement and beginning the season as scheduled on Nov.
3.
The league canceled the entire 114-game preseason on Monday.
Next  week, it will consider canceling the first-ever regular season games  in league history.
With wide philosophical differences on how $2 billion  annual income should be distributed, both sides have privately said  they don't expect to play a regular season game before December.
Billy  Hunter, the union's executive director, offered a glimmer of hope.
He spoke optimistically about the potential for a quick resolution.
Standing a few feet away from Ewing, he said, ``I hope the owners  and commissioner have gotten the message: that we're serious about  a deal.
I'm prepared to make a quantum leap.
I don't think we're that  far off.
I think there's a lot jockeying, a lot of rhetoric and a  lot of games being played.
But if and when the owners decide they  want a deal, then they'll get one.''
But soon after, he began lambasting  the owners' latest proposal, which includes the eventual phasing out  the clause that enables free agents  to earn unlimited salaries from their current teams.
That clause represents  the major rift in negotiations.
Owners would like to implement a restrictive  salary cap that would eventually put a ceiling on how much one player  can earn.
``I don't know if this is going to come to a speedy resolution,''  Ewing said.
``They're entrenched with what they want, which is a hard  cap.
And we feel with a hard cap, we as players, cannot survive.
We  would have to be stupid and ignorant to accept that deal.''
Said Hunter,  ``If you go for their proposal, it's just a joke.
It's a step backwards.
I cannot understand it.
If the intent was to reach an agreement at  this late stage or to negotiate in earnest, this was the wrong way  to go about it.''
League officials did not respond to the players'  comments.
``All we want is our fair share and we feel like they're  trying to take that away from us,'' Ewing said.
`There's a perception  that we're on strike.
It's the other way around.
We've been locked  out.''
Besides Ewing, the other Knicks included former union president  Buck Williams, former vice president Herb Williams, Allan Houston  and John Starks.
Marcus Camby also showed up briefly.
When the media  horde closed in, however, the third-year forward went to look for  his late-arriving teammates inside the practice facility.
He was stopped  at the gym door, which was locked.
``They locked us out,'' said Rockets  forward Mario Elie.
``Everybody's got to get that corrected.
It's  not on us.
They're the ones that closed us down.''
The stalemate has  elicited talks of possibly bringing in a mediator in the coming weeks,  as Major League Baseball did in 1994 to help solve its labor dispute.
But the players are convinced commissioner David Stern and the owners  are set on testing their resolve before any genuine headway can be  made in negotiations.
That means missing paychecks in November, something  Ewing said the players are prepared to do.
Both sides are still awaiting  the outcome of an arbitration decision that is due before Oct. 18.
Fordham Law School dean John Feerick will rule whether or not more  than 200 players with $800 million in guaranteed contracts should  be paid during the lockout.
Feerick's decision could give new leverage  to one side.
But if the players lose the arbitration, more than 400  athletes _ many with extravagant lifestyles and tremendous financial  obligations _ will have their allegiances instantly tested.
``It's  like they want to see how strong we are,'' Ewing said.
``Based on  the proposals we've received, we're very strong.''
``So far, it seems  as though the NBA is dug in on their position,'' Buck Williams said.
``I don't think they're too concerned at this point about making a  deal.
He added, ``We're about as far apart as the Grand Canyon right  now.''
The first substantive talks in more than two months between opposing  sides of the National Basketball Association's labor dispute came  and went Thursday without a hint of a settlement.
Still, a five-hour  meeting that was described as cordial by the league and ``almost like  two bulls letting off a little steam'' by the players association  produced another scheduled round of talks next Tuesday.
Barring a  major compromise, that will not be enough time to preserve a full  season and prevent the league from losing its first regular-season  games to labor strife in November.
Russ Granik, the NBA's deputy commissioner,  said the league would wait until after next week's meeting before  deciding to cancel regular-season games.
He also discussed the possibility  of a significantly shortened season.
``We haven't made a determination  that you need this exact number of games in order to have a representative  season,'' Granik said.
``But we recognize that beyond a certain point  we can't possibly sell to our fans that we're having an NBA season.
``Whether's that 60 games, 50 games or 49 or 53, we're not there yet.
We have a few months before we have to face that decision.''
Perhaps  the only progress involved Thursday in the conference room of a midtown  Manhattan hotel was a question-and-answer session over the league's  latest proposal to the players.
Patrick Ewing, the union president,  and vice presidents Herb Williams and Dikembe Mutombo attended the  meeting with the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, and union  lawyers.
No owners were present, but Granik, Commissioner David Stern  and the league's lawyers spent most of the day explaining the intricacies  of a two-week-old proposal to the players.
At one point before the  two parties broke for lunch, Stern and Hunter raised their voices  and accused each other of handling their constituencies poorly, a  participant in the meeting said.
But the two were seen shaking hands  and laughing after the meeting concluded shortly after 3 p.m. ``There  was some venting from both sides,'' Hunter said.
``We've been placid  and very respectful.
Today, we took the coats off and we were inclined  to take the gloves off a little bit.
Having done that, I think it  kind of loosened up both sides.''
Hunter added: ``Did anybody blink  today?
They're sort of look at us for any kind of nuance they can  find during the course of negotiations that might, in some way or  another, give some indication that while we're mouthing one thing  we might be open to something else.
We're looking at their body language,  too.
I don't think that they're ready to make a deal.''
The last formal  meeting between both sides on Aug. 6 ended when Stern and the owners  abruptly marched out after they had received a proposal from the players.
Despite modest encouragement over a new proposal delivered by the  players to the owners, the National Basketball Association Tuesday  canceled the first two weeks of the regular season, the first time  in the league's 51-year history that it will lose games to a labor  dispute.
The NBA's deputy commissioner, Russ Granik, announced the  cancellation after nearly three and a half hours of meetings concluded  at a Manhattan hotel.
The decision to cancel 99 games between Nov.
3 and Nov. 16 came after the players association proposed the implementation  of a tax system instead of a hard salary cap, a proposal the owners  said they would respond to by Friday.
``We tried our best today to  try to do what was possible to salvage the season,'' said Alonzo Mourning,  the Miami Heat center.
``Unfortunately, it didn't work out.''
After  35,001 games without a blemish, the NBA now joins the National Hockey  League, the National Football League and Major League Baseball in  having lost games to a labor dispute.
Taking into account that a three-  to four-week period would be needed for training camp and free-agent  signings before the season starts, the league said it would decide  in two weeks whether to make further cancellations.
``I'm very sad  and disappointed,'' said the NBA commissioner, David Stern.
``I consider  it to be a collective failure, but I honestly don't know what else  we could have done.
I do things that I like to think are in the best  interests of the game.
And I believe this is.''
The decision came  after what both sides agreed were the most substantive talks since  the owners imposed a lockout on the player July 1.
Seventeen players,  including union president Patrick Ewing and vice presidents Mitch  Richmond, Herb Williams, Dikemebe Mutombo and Ty Corbin, attended  the meeting along with Stern, Granik and five members of the ownership  Madison Square Garden president Dave Checketts and owners  Abe Pollin of Washington, Gordon Gund of Cleveland, Les Alexander  of Houston and Jerry Colangelo of Phoenix.
The talks featured what  the players association implied were a bevy concessions made to the  owners that they felt would accommodate the league's desire to swing  the revenue pendulum back toward the owners.
The dispute involves  the distribution of approximately $2 billion in league-wide income.
The main sticking point has been the owners' insistence on a salary  cap without exceptions, the implementation of which they believe would  bring player salaries' in line with revenue growth.
While the players  did not discuss the elimination of the Larry Bird exception _ a clause  that allows a player to secure any amount of money he wants in re-signing  with his current team _ they did address the exception in their taxation  proposal.
The main points were as follows: _ A 50 percent tax would  be imposed on salary earned above $18 million, a clause that would  affect only a few players who exercised their Bird rights.
For example,  if a player made $20 million, the team would be forced to put $1 million  into a fund that would most likely be distributed to low-revenue teams.
``There could be provisions made for some players,'' said Jeffrey  Kessler, the chief outside counsel for the union.
``We don't want  to do anything that would encourage Chicago from getting Michael Jordan  back.
And I think the league feels the same way.''
The proposal is  similar to the luxury tax proposed by the union in 1995 during negotiations,  but it would not be nearly as liberal.
_ A salary cap credit would  go into effect if the league pays out more than 63 percent of revenues  in salary.
Whatever figure over that number reduces the salary cap  the next year.
If the figure was $29 million over the salary cap,  then the 29 teams would work with a salary cap $1 million less than  the previous season.
But the players would have an assurance that  the salary cap would go up at least $2 million before the credit goes  into effect.
_ Also, if the 63-percent threshold is met, a reduction  of annual 20 percent raises would take effect for multi-year contracts.
Players would either get raises of 10 percent or the rate of growth  in league revenues.
The union said this clearly addresses the league's  desire to bring salaries in line with revenues.
Since the owners re-opened  the current agreement because 57.1 percent of revenue was going toward  salaries, the 63-percent figure would probably have to come down substantially  for the owners to agree to such a proposal.
_ Teams would get a right  of first refusal on free agents after the fourth year for incoming  rookies, meaning a player would be contractually obligated to the  same team for the first four years of his deal.
Currently, the rookie  scale is three years and includes a clause that enables a player to  exercise his Bird rights after two seasons _ a clause Kevin Garnett  parlayed into an astronomical $126 million deal last year with Minnesota.
_ Finally, the players agreed to make marijuana a banned substance.
Details of testing have not been negotiated and no specific discussions  took place regarding testing for performance-enhancing drugs, a provision  the owners included in their last proposal.
In return for the concessions,  the players want an increase in the minimum salary _ currently $272,500  _ and creation of an average salary exception.
This would allow every  team above the salary cap being able to sign one free agent per year  for the average salary _ currently $2.6 million.
``We're buoyed by  the fact for the first time they've decided to submit a counterproposal,''  the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, said.
``I don't know  if I'm more optimistic, but I can earnestly say we can look our ballplayers  in the eye and say we made a valiant effort.''
Asked if the players  would finally be tested financially with the cancellation of games,  Hunter added: ``It's not about us blinking.
We want to reach an agreement.
We're tired of the rhetoric, we're tired of the game-playing.
Our  position all along has been we don't want to accept a bad deal.''
Granik said refunds to fans would be made at end of the calendar month  and that the first refund would include monies for canceled preseason  games.
He estimated the losses into the ``hundreds of millions of  dollars.''
``I think we have serious concern whether a tax system  can address the kind of needs we have economically,'' he added.
``But  there's some possibility.''
Added Stern, ``We owe it to the fans to  go back and look at the notion whether a tax rate might begin to achieve  the result we wanted.
It doesn't look promising, but we're going to  spend the next two days to see if we can give a favorable response.''
Though the decision to cancel games was not surprising, it did represent  a major shift in prior labor stalemates.
Both sides reluctantly hammered  out a deal in 1995 before the start of training camp with the sole  notion of not missing games and preserving the NBA's perfect record.
Tuesday, they could not come to such an accord.
``I'd like to think  these our the last games we have to cancel,'' Granik said.
``But unless  this or something else works, or there's some dramatic breakthrough,  I think that is certainly not all of the season that's in jeopardy.''
The National Basketball Association, embroiled in a labor dispute  with its players, Tuesday canceled the first two weeks of the 1998-99  season.
It is the first time in the league's 51-year history that  it will lose regular-season games.
The NBA's deputy commissioner,  Russ Granik, announced the cancellation after nearly three and a half  hours of meetings concluded at a Manhattan hotel.
The decision to  cancel 99 games between Nov. 3 and Nov. 16 came after the players  association proposed the implementation of a tax system instead of  a hard salary cap, a proposal the owners said they would respond to  by Friday.
``We tried our best today to try to do what was possible  to salvage the season,'' said Alonzo Mourning, the Miami Heat center.
``Unfortunately, it didn't work out.''
After 35,001 games without  a blemish, the NBA now joins the National Hockey League, the National  Football League and Major League Baseball in having lost games to  a labor dispute.
Taking into account that a three- to four-week period  would be needed for training camp and free-agent signings before the  season starts, the league said it would decide in two weeks whether  to make further cancellations.
``I'm very sad and disappointed,''  said the NBA commissioner, David Stern.
``I consider it to be a collective  failure, but I honestly don't know what else we could have done.
I  do things that I like to think are in the best interests of the game.
And I believe this is.''
The decision came after what both sides agreed  were the most substantive talks since the owners imposed a lockout  on the player July 1.
Seventeen players, including union president  Patrick Ewing and vice presidents Mitch Richmond, Herb Williams, Dikemebe  Mutombo and Ty Corbin, attended the meeting along with Stern, Granik  Madison Square Garden  president Dave Checketts and owners Abe Pollin of Washington, Gordon  Gund of Cleveland, Les Alexander of Houston and Jerry Colangelo of  Phoenix.
The talks featured what the players association implied were  a bevy concessions made to the owners that they felt would accommodate  the league's desire to swing the revenue pendulum back toward the  owners.
The dispute involves the distribution of approximately $2  billion in league-wide income.
The main sticking point has been the  owners' insistence on a salary cap without exceptions, the implementation  of which they believe would bring player salaries' in line with revenue  growth.
While the players did not discuss the elimination of the Larry  Bird exception _ a clause that allows a player to secure any amount  of money he wants in re-signing with his current team _ they did address  the exception in their taxation proposal.
The main points were as  follows: _ A 50 percent tax would be imposed on salary earned above  $18 million, a clause that would affect only a few players who exercised  their Bird rights.
For example, if a player made $20 million, the  team would be forced to put $1 million into a fund that would most  likely be distributed to low-revenue teams.
``There could be provisions  made for some players,'' said Jeffrey Kessler, the chief outside counsel  for the union.
``We don't want to do anything that would encourage  Chicago from getting Michael Jordan back.
And I think the league feels  the same way.''
The proposal is similar to the luxury tax proposed  by the union in 1995 during negotiations, but it would not be nearly  as liberal.
_ A salary cap credit would go into effect if the league  pays out more than 63 percent of revenues in salary.
Whatever figure  over that number reduces the salary cap the next year.
If the figure  was $29 million over the salary cap, then the 29 teams would work  with a salary cap $1 million less than the previous season.
But the  players would have an assurance that the salary cap would go up at  least $2 million before the credit goes into effect.
_ Also, if the  63-percent threshold is met, a reduction of annual 20 percent raises  would take effect for multi-year contracts.
Players would either get  raises of 10 percent or the rate of growth in league revenues.
The  union said this clearly addresses the league's desire to bring salaries  in line with revenues.
Since the owners re-opened the current agreement  because 57.1 percent of revenue was going toward salaries, the 63-percent  figure would probably have to come down substantially for the owners  to agree to such a proposal.
_ Teams would get a right of first refusal  on free agents after the fourth year for incoming rookies, meaning  a player would be contractually obligated to the same team for the  first four years of his deal.
Currently, the rookie scale is three  years and includes a clause that enables a player to exercise his  Bird rights after two seasons _ a clause Kevin Garnett parlayed into  an astronomical $126 million deal last year with Minnesota.
_ Finally,  the players agreed to make marijuana a banned substance.
Details of  testing have not been negotiated and no specific discussions took  place regarding testing for performance-enhancing drugs, a provision  the owners included in their last proposal.
In return for the concessions,  the players want an increase in the minimum salary _ currently $272,500  _ and creation of an average salary exception.
This would allow every  team above the salary cap being able to sign one free agent per year  for the average salary _ currently $2.6 million.
``We're buoyed by  the fact for the first time they've decided to submit a counterproposal,''  the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, said.
``I don't know  if I'm more optimistic, but I can earnestly say we can look our ballplayers  in the eye and say we made a valiant effort.''
Asked if the players  would finally be tested financially with the cancellation of games,  Hunter added: ``It's not about us blinking.
We want to reach an agreement.
We're tired of the rhetoric, we're tired of the game-playing.
Our  position all along has been we don't want to accept a bad deal.''
Granik said refunds to fans would be made at end of the calendar month  and that the first refund would include monies for canceled preseason  games.
He estimated the losses into the ``hundreds of millions of  dollars.''
``I think we have serious concern whether a tax system  can address the kind of needs we have economically,'' he added.
``But  there's some possibility.''
Added Stern, ``We owe it to the fans to  go back and look at the notion whether a tax rate might begin to achieve  the result we wanted.
It doesn't look promising, but we're going to  spend the next two days to see if we can give a favorable response.''
Though the decision to cancel games was not surprising, it did represent  a major shift in prior labor stalemates.
Both sides reluctantly hammered  out a deal in 1995 before the start of training camp with the sole  notion of not missing games and preserving the NBA's perfect record.
Tuesday, they could not come to such an accord.
``I'd like to think  these our the last games we have to cancel,'' Granik said.
``But unless  this or something else works, or there's some dramatic breakthrough,  I think that is certainly not all of the season that's in jeopardy.''
More than 220 National Basketball Association players with guaranteed  contracts will find out Monday whether they are to be paid during  the management lockout, a long-awaited arbitrator's decision that  may affect leverage in the league's dispute with the players and have  major ramifications on American sports-labor law.
But neither the  players nor the owners are counting on the ruling by the arbitrator,  John Feerick, to speed up negotiations, especially if Feerick finds  in favor of the players, an award that could approach $800 million  in salaries.
NBA attorneys have indicated to the union that if the  decision goes against management, they will seek to have it vacated  by appealing to the U.S. District Court in Manhattan and then, if  necessary, to the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, a process that  could prevent the players from getting paid for several months.
The  NBA has already canceled the first two weeks of the regular season  because of the labor dispute.
The league has other litigation pending  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.
If the players win the ruling,  the NBA intends to renew its motion to disqualify Feerick.
The motion  was brought last summer on the grounds that no collective bargaining  agreement existed and, therefore, he had no jurisdiction to hear the  matter.
``If he rules in our favor, I think it emboldens the spirit  and the resolve of the players,'' said Billy Hunter, union executive  director.
``But we understand that won't end the lockout.
It just  means they have to pay 200-some players.
And there is still other  litigation alive that may take a while to resolve.
At most, it's a  hollow victory.''
Feerick will have taken the full 30 days to render  his decision.
Whatever he decides, his ruling will be watched carefully.
There is no precedent for locked-out athletes being paid.
During the  NBA summer lockout of 1995, players who missed paychecks did not file  a grievance.
Neither did National Hockey League players who were locked  out for the first three months of the 1994-95 season.
The union argued  that owners should have protected themselves by inserting clauses  about non-payment for lockouts and strikes into individual player  contracts.
In support of its arguments, the union pointed to clauses  in a few individual player contracts that contained language precluding  payment during a lockout.
The league is relying on the basic tenets  of labor law, which hold that employees not be paid during strikes  or lockouts.
A ruling for the union would be significant for all future  negotiations between players and owners.
The deterrent factor of a  lockout is that employees subject to a collective bargaining agreement  do not get paid once the agreement expires and they are unable to  reach a new agreement.
If Feerick finds in favor of the players, there  will be no economic incentive for those with guaranteed contracts  to reach an agreement quickly.
They would essentially be paid for  not playing basketball.
If Feerick finds in favor of the owners, the  reality of not being paid may spur the players to reach an agreement  more quickly.
But Hunter disputed this notion, and in a conference  call Friday talked openly about the entire season's being canceled  before the players would back away from their ultimate goals.
``I'm  not at all concerned,'' Hunter said.
``There's been no demonstration  that there's going to be a change in our resolve.
After the players  saw these proposals from the league and the recent posturing by NBA  owners, well, I had two players call me up and tell me, if need be,  they'd be willing to hock everything they've got.''
Another significant  development may be thedeparture of many players to Europe until the  dispute is settled, according to at least two player agents.
``I think  it would be a case-by-case basis, but yes, there's already some people  talking about that,'' said Bill Strickland, a member of the union's  agents advisory committee.
Steve Kauffman, another member of the committee,  said he would explore the possibility that one client, Nets center  Rony Seikaly, would sign with a professional team in Greece.
``We  wouldn't look to void his deal with the team,'' Kauffman said.
``But  we would want him to have the right for him to work temporarily until  he could come back and honor his contract.'
Russ Granik, NBA deputy  commissioner, said the league has approved the idea of players' earning  a living elsewhere until the lockout is settled.
Proposals exchanged  last week that included the concept of a luxury-tax system on player  salaries appeared to reflect the first signs of progress in negotiations  since the lockout began July 1.
But both sides have termed the figures  in each other's proposal as unacceptable, and it was unclear whether  either side was willing compromise.
``I don't think we should get  too carried away about the possibilities just yet,'' Granik said.
``When they explored the idea of a tax system, we were taking the  players at their word that they wanted to make some headway.
But to  call their first proposal meaningless is charitable.
They proposed  something that has no impact.
As it stands, that can't be the solution.''
The owners' goal is to slow the growth of player salaries in relation  to leaguewide revenue over the next three years, while the players  want to keep earning as much as possible.
As labor battles go, the current one between the National Basketball  Association and its players is weird even by sports standards.
There  is a real possibility that most, if not all, of the coming season  will be canceled.
In this union battle it is the interests of the  best paid, not those who make union scale, that are dominating the  discussion.
And here it is some of the workers, not the management,  who are considering trying to make the union disappear.
The current  arrangement has produced an unbalanced pay scale of immense proportions.
Last year more players than ever before received the union minimum,  then $242,000 for rookies or $272,000 for veterans.
The number of  the middle class,  in NBA terms _ fell sharply.
But Michael Jordan made $33 million.
This should not be a surprise.
Sports is an entertainment business,  not unlike movies.
Big stars get millions, while most get union scale.
Over the years, NBA efforts to stem the rise of salaries have failed.
The most important loophole in its salary cap lets a team sign its  own free agent for whatever it is willing to pay.
When that was adopted,  it was assumed that no team would pay a lot more than a rival could  pay.
But it has not worked out that way.
In the current negotiation,  the league has offered to guarantee that its payroll will rise 20  percent over the next four years, from $1 billion to $1.2 billion,  and says it is open to proposals to split that money any way the players  want, whether by raising the minimum salary or guaranteeing raises  for veterans.
The union says it is worried about that middle class,  but seems determined to preserve the free market.
The league got its  broadcasters, NBC and Time Warner's cable channels, to agree to pay  this year's television fees whether or not there are any games to  broadcast.
(They will be paid back in later years, either through  reduced fees or extra games to show.)
Owners hoped the players would  think management was willing to wait them out, and come to terms with  only a small part of the season canceled.
But the union is acting  unhurried.
It turned aside requests for negotiations this week, saying  the players had to meet first.
Then there is the issue of union suicide,  a tactic that was rejected by the players in 1995.
The idea is that  if the players had no union, it would be illegal under antitrust laws  for the owners to collude.
The sky would be the limit.
That tactic  might fail.
The courts could reject a union decertification vote as  a sham, and in any case some players may fear that teams would feel  free to offer less than the old union minimum.
But if the players  go that route, it could be a long time before real negotiations get  going.
Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, warned the owners  this week that a prolonged lockout could destroy the league's popularity.
That was what all the seers said four years ago, when baseball's World  Series was canceled by labor troubles.
But fan memories are relatively  short, and now baseball seems more popular than ever.
With that in  mind, both owners and players may choose to battle on for months.
After years of civil war, Congo in October 1998 was again in turmoil as rebel forces fought to overthrow the government of President Kabila.
The rebels, ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army and his political opponents, were said to be supported by Rwandan and Ugandan forces while Kabila was backed by Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Sudan and Ugandan rebels.
At first the rebels advanced to the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa, but foreign troops pushed them back to the extreme eastern part of the country.
The rebels then launched a counter offensive but by mid-October it was not clear who would prevail.
Likely ADF rebels attack Chiondo, Uganda, killing 6 civilians.
Soldiers repel attack, killing 2 rebels.
Anti-Kabila rebels start a web-site and post their mission statement in a media campaign.
Congo Tutsi rebels meet resistance as they enter Kindu and adjacent strategic government airbase.
Thousands of rebels in place for battle.
After 3 days, battle not going well for rebels.
Rebels shoot down jet; say soldiers on board.
Government claims Kindu refugees on board; unconfirmed.
Rebels and Rwandan allies push through government defenses at Kindu.
Fighting subsides after rebel artillery strikes.
Population suffers from rebellions and tribal conflict.
Rebel groups, mostly Tutsis, but backed by Rawandas and Ugandans are fighting the Congolese government of President Kabila, who is accused of corruption and sowing dissent among Congo's 400 tribes.
The government controls the western part of the country but the rebels are gaining in the east.
Heavy fighting has occurred near the village of Kindu, which has an airfield critical for supplying government troops.
Rebels shot down an airliner near there, killing all 40 aboard, which they say were soldiers but the airline says were civilians.
The rebels have promised reforms and a revitalization of the economy; however, the war has increased tribal animosity.
Civil strife, tribal rivalry and rebellion has given Congolese rebels control of 40 percent of Congo.
The rebels are ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of President Kabila's army and opposition politicians.
They are accused of being puppets to Uganda and Rwanda.
They launched an attack in Kindu, the strategic town and airbase in eastern Congo used by government to halt their advances.
Rebels downed a jetliner carrying 40 people from Kindu but fighting has subsided.
They have taken their two-month campaign to the Internet to tell their side of the story.
Kabila, refusing to negotiate with them, is accused of mismanagement and causing tribal divisiveness.
Rebels attacked a village in western Uganda and killed six civilians  before soldiers drove them off, a military spokesman said Thursday.
The attack occurred overnight Wednesday in the village of Chiondo  near Kasese, 270 kilometers (170 miles) west of the capital Kampala,  said the spokesman, who identified himself only as Lt. Majera.
Majera  said the attackers were believed to be rebels of the Allied Democratic  Forces who operate from bases in the foothills of the Rwenzori Mountains  that straddle the Uganda-Congolese border.
He said the rebels likely  fled back to their bases after the attack.
Majera said the attackers  avoided a nearby army post when they shot up the village.
It was the  gunfire that alerted the soldiers, he said, adding that they killed  two of the assailants.
The various rebel groups operating in the region  often attack with knives or machetes, either to save on ammunition  or because they don't have guns.
He had no further details.
Under  an agreement earlier this year with Congo, Uganda sent troops into  the neighboring country to flush out the ADF fighters.
President Yoweri  Museveni insists they will remain there until Ugandan security is  guaranteed, despite Congolese President Laurent Kabila's protests  that Uganda is backing Congolese rebels attempting to topple him.
The anti-Kabila rebels claim the Ugandan rebel Lord's Resistance Army,  which operates in northern Uganda and enjoys support from Sudan, is  fighting alongside Kabila's forces together with Sudanese soldiers.
The government-owned daily New Vision reported Thursday that LRA leader  Joseph Kony was badly wounded last week and is in hospital in Juba,  the largest town still under government control in southern Sudan.
The Sudan People's Liberation Army, which is fighting the government  in Khartoum for autonomy for southern Sudan, has waged pitched battles  with government troops in the past week as it moves on Juba, spokesmen  for both sides say.
New Vision quoted Ugandan Minister of State for  Security Muruli Mukasa as saying Kony's largest camp at al-Gabelain,  38 kilometers (24 miles) south of Juba, was destroyed last week when  the SPLA took control.
Muruli said the LRA had been planning to bomb  several sites in the Ugandan capital, including the Parliament building,  state-run Radio Uganda, unidentified embassies and other public sites,  the newspaper said.
Congolese rebels have taken their two-month campaign to oust President  Laurent Kabila to the Internet.
``We have to explain to the world  audience who we are and what we're fighting for,'' rebel leader Ernest  Wamba dia Wamba said on Friday.
``Besides, the (Kabila) government  has been using the Internet to tell their side of the story.''
The  56-year-old history professor at the University of Dar es Salaam in  Tanzania said supporters of the Congolese Rally for Democracy in the  United States have created a web site for the rebellion.
The site  has been set up on the donor-supported  Prairenet Community Network in eastern Illinois.
The rebels are a  coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army  and political opponents who accuse Kabila of power-grabbing, mismanagement,  corruption and sowing dissent among Congo's 400 tribes.
After an initial  lightning advance in the far west of Africa's third-largest nation,  the rebels were stopped at the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa,  by troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia, who are backing Kabila.
Since then, the rebels have been confined to a chunk of territory  in the extreme eastern part of the country where their rebellion was  declared Aug. 2.
Wamba said the rebels control 40 percent of Congo,  an area of 15 million people.
So far, Kabila has refused to negotiate  with the rebels, accusing them of being the puppets of neighboring  Rwanda and Uganda.
Posting the rebel mission statement on the Internet  is just part of the media campaign.
Last week, Wamba dispatched two  of his top aides to the United States and Europe to lobby for political  support and raise public awareness about the conflict in Congo.
``World  leaders, diplomats and are not familiar enough with our cause.
They  still talk about Tutsis leading the rebellion.
Well, I'm not a Tutsi,''  Wamba said.
Jacques Depelchin, the movement's vice president and a  former lecturer at the University of California at Berkeley, met in  Washington earlier this week with the U.S. special envoy in the Great  Lakes region of Central Africa, Howard Wolpe and with congressmen,  Wamba said.
Congolese rebels have taken their two-month campaign to oust President  Laurent Kabila to the Internet.
``We have to explain to the world  audience who we are and what we're fighting for,'' rebel leader Ernest  Wamba dia Wamba said on Friday.
``Besides, the (Kabila) government  has been using the Internet to tell their side of the story.''
The  56-year-old history professor at the University of Dar es Salaam in  Tanzania said supporters of the Congolese Rally for Democracy in the  United States have created a web site for the rebellion.
The site  has been set up on the donor-supported  Prairenet Community Network in eastern Illinois.
The rebels are a  coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army  and political opponents who accuse Kabila of power-grabbing, mismanagement,  corruption and sowing dissent among Congo's 400 tribes.
After an initial  lightning advance in the far west of Africa's third-largest nation,  the rebels were stopped at the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa,  by troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia, who are backing Kabila.
Since then, the rebels have been confined to a chunk of territory  in the extreme eastern part of the country where their rebellion was  declared Aug. 2.
Wamba said the rebels control 40 percent of Congo,  an area of 15 million people.
So far, Kabila has refused to negotiate  with the rebels, accusing them of being the puppets of neighboring  Rwanda and Uganda.
Posting the rebel mission statement on the Internet  is just part of the media campaign.
Last week, Wamba dispatched two  of his top aides to the United States and Europe to lobby for political  support and raise public awareness about the conflict in Congo.
``World  leaders, diplomats and are not familiar enough with our cause.
They  still talk about Tutsis leading the rebellion.
Well, I'm not a Tutsi,''  Wamba said.
Jacques Depelchin, the movement's vice president and a  former lecturer at the University of California at Berkeley, met in  Washington earlier this week with the U.S. special envoy in the Great  Lakes region of Central Africa, Howard Wolpe and with congressmen,  Wamba said.
After a day of fighting, Congolese rebels said Sunday they had entered  Kindu, the strategic town and airbase in eastern Congo used by the  government to halt their advances.
Etienne Ngangura, a rebel spokesman,  said the rebel fighters were inside Kindu and had taken the adjacent,  large airbase, 380 kilometers (235 miles) west of Goma, the rebel  stronghold.
``We're in the town and the airport,'' Ngangura said.
He offered no details and the report could not be confirmed independently.
Rebel military sources said the fighting continued inside Kindu where   ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of President Laurent Kabila's  army and opposition politicians _ took up arms Aug. 2 accusing Kabila  of mismanagement, corruption and creating division among Congo's 400  tribes.
The rebels have targeted Kindu since late August, when they  were forced to retreat from the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa,  after troops from Angola and Zimbabwe came to Kabila's aid.
Troops  moving south from Kisangani, the largest city under rebel control,  and moving west, had made steady gains against Kindu, which the government  apparently used to build up force for a planned counter-offensive.
Apart from Kindu, Ngangura said rebel fighters took Buta, 120 kilometers  (75 miles) north of Kisangani and on the main road in northern Congo  that links Sudan and the Central African Republic.
Also on Sunday,  Ngangura said the rebels took Bumba, 400 kilometers (250 miles) northwest  of Kisangani.
These reports could not be confirmed independently either.
Rebel leaders said a victory at Kindu would confirm rebel strength,  boost fighters' morale and perhaps persuade others to join them.
The  rebels want direct negotiations with Kabila.
But the president has  so far refused, accusing the rebels of being puppets of Rwanda and  Uganda, which Kabila has accused of orchestrating the rebellion.
The  conflict in Central Africa has drawn in most of Congo's nine neighbors,  and regional diplomatic initiatives have so far failed to stop it.
Rebel commanders said Tuesday they were poised to overrun an important  a battle that could determine  the future of the two-month Congolese war.
After trekking several  hundred kilometers (miles) through dense tropical forest, thousands  of rebel fighters have gathered 19 kilometers (11 miles) outside Kindu,  where troops loyal to President Laurent Kabila have used an air base  as a launching pad for offensives.
If the rebels succeed in capturing  Kindu, 380 kilometers (235 miles) west of Goma, the rebel headquarters,  this will remove the last government stronghold in eastern Congo and  pave the way for rebel advance into the mineral-rich southwest.
A  rebel defeat, on the other hand, would put the coalition of ethnic  Tutsis, disenchanted members of the Congolese army and opposition  politicians on the defensive and give a boost to Kabila's efforts  to fend off the rebellion launched Aug. 2.
Rebel commander Richard  Mondo said troops had fired artillery rounds into Kindu Monday and  early Tuesday, sending the population fleeing out of town.
Advance  units had crossed the Lualaba River from the north and were meeting  stiff resistance in the town, he said.
Since the assault on the town  began at 3 a.m. (0100 GMT), at least 18 enemy soldiers were killed  and 40 taken prisoner, Mondo said, adding the number was expected  to rise.
The rebels took casualties, too, but the number was not known.
One rebel soldier was wounded in the stomach, he said.
He said the  large Kindu air base, 4 kilometers (2 miles) outside town, was deserted  and no one appeared to be in control.
``Our soldiers are in the town  and the fighting is continuing,'' rebel battalion commander Arthur  Mulunda said in Kalima, 80 kilometers (50 miles) northeast of Kindu.
There was no independent confirmation of the rebel claims.
On Sunday,  a spokesman in Goma boasted that Kindu was already under rebel control.
In Kinshasa, government spokesman Didier Mumengi said Monday the Congolese  army was firmly in control of Kindu.
Mulunda's 1,500-strong battalion  walked 240 kilometers (150 miles) Bukavu at the southern end of Lake  Kivu to Kalima, which fell to the rebels Saturday with little resistance.
The rebel fighters, clad in brand-new Rwandan-made dark green uniforms,  rubber rain boots and toting Kalashnikov assault rifles and rocket-propelled  grenade launchers, said they were advancing slowly through the lush  forest of palm trees and razor-sharp tall grass.
``We've been resting  a lot.
It took us two weeks to get here,'' Mondo said.
The rebels  are now using Kalima, a town with one main street, scattered houses  and mud-and-brick huts, to supply troops with rice, cooking oil, drinking  water and ammunition.
A small, grass airstrip 8 kilometers (5 miles)  away from Kalima is just barely long enough for the rebels' Russian-built  Antonov AN-72 transport aircraft.
The rebels have targeted Kindu since  late August, when they were forced to retreat from the outskirts of  Kinshasa after Angola and Zimbabwe sent troops to bail out Kabila.
Rebels still control a string of towns in eastern Congo, including  Kisangani, the country's third-largest city.
The bloody bandages of injured rebels trucked back to this rear base  Wednesday offered evidence that the three-day battle for the strategic  air base at Kindu was not going well for those fighting to oust Congolese  President Laurent Kabila.
It was impossible to say who had the upper  hand in the battle for Kindu and its air base, which government forces  have been using to launch airstrikes on eastern towns and to assemble  ground troops.
Rebel commander Richard Mondo said shelling and ground  attacks, which began Monday, continued on Wednesday.
Mondo said he  was expecting air shipments of munitions to bolster the rebel offensive.
On Wednesday, a truck unloaded a dozen wounded rebel fighters at Kalima,  a small town 80 kilometers (50 miles) northeast of Kindu, serving  as a rear base for the attack.
Sweaty and weary, some limping and  others bandaged, they waited to be airlifted to a hospital in Goma,  the rebel stronghold 380 kilometers (235 miles) east, on the Rwandan  a coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted soldiers  in Kabila's army and opposition politicians _ faced stiff resistance.
In Kinshasa, the Ministry of Defense said Tuesday that the Congolese  Armed Forces, known as the FAC, had killed 18 rebels in warding off  the attacks.
``Kindu is effectively in the hands of the FAC, which  has now launched an offensive after defending its positions,'' said  a ministry statement broadcast on state-run television.
``The civilians  there are cooperating fully with the FAC as their counterparts did  previously in Kinshasa,'' the capital.
Rebel leaders hope the capture  of Kindu will boost morale and demonstrate can carry their two-month  rebellion into the rest of Congo, Africa's third-largest nation.
The  rebel victory would also open routes to Katanga and Eastern Kasai  provinces, rich in copper and diamonds.
The rebels targeted Kindu  since late August, when they were forced to retreat their march from  extreme western Congo to the outskirts of Kinshasa after Angola and  Zimbabwe sent troops to bail out Kabila.
Rebel commanders say their  2,000 fighters face an estimated 5,000 government troops, apparently  reinforced by Sudanese soldiers.
Sudan denies involvement in Congo.
The rebels accuse Kabila of betraying the eight-month rebellion that  brought him to power in May 1997 through mismanagement and creating  divisions among Congo's 400 tribes.
Rebels in eastern Congo on Saturday said they shot down a passenger  jet ferrying 40 government soldiers into a strategic airport facing  a rebel assault.
A Congo Airlines executive said the victims were  civilians being evacuated from Kindu, about 1,000 kilometers (620  miles) east of the capital, Kinshasa.
Neither claim could be confirmed  independently.
Stavros Papaioannou, the president of the airline's  management committee, said a missile hit the rear engine of the Boeing  jet after the aircraft took off from Kindu airport.
A rebel military  commander, who requested anonymity, said the plane was carrying troops,  although he did not explain how he knew this.
He said the plane was  shot down while approaching Kindu air base, where the rebels had deployed  at least two surface-to-air missiles and more than 3,500 troops in  preparation for a final assault on the government-held town.
Alexis  Tambwe Mwamba, one of rebel leaders, said from the rebel stronghold  at Goma, 380 kilometers (235 miles) northeast of Kalima, that fighters  had intercepted government radio messages in Kindu and knew in advance  of the arrival of the aircraft.
He said the government had been using  the Boeing 727 to fly in troops and ammunition in Kindu for several  days.
Papaioannou, citing, 6th graf pvs
A day after shooting down a jetliner, Congolese rebels and their Rwandan  allies pushed Sunday through government defense lines, showing the  confidence of a victor in a week-old battle for a strategic air base.
Fighting in Kindu, 32 kilometers (20 miles) northeast of the Elila  River bridge, died down after the rebels fired a barrage of artillery  into the government-held quarters and the air base, four kilometers  (two miles) away.
Rebel commander Fino Kabangu Kalunga said the government  forces, surrounded by 3,500 rebel troops from three directions, failed  to respond to Sunday's attacks.
Some troops reportedly retreated through  a single road corridor leading out of the town.
On Saturday, the rebels  said they shot down a Congolese Boeing 727 which was attempting to  land at Kindu air base with 40 troops and ammunition.
In Kinshasa,  the private Congolese Airlines, which owned the aircraft, said the  victims were civilians fleeing fighting in Kindu.
It was not possible  to confirm independently either claim.
Kalunga said the airport, although  still under government control, was in effect unoperational because  of the rebel surface-to-air-missiles deployed nearby.
War-weary, physically  exhausted and sweaty, hundreds of rebel troops and Rwandan soldiers  marched through dense tropical forest went to reinforce their comrades  at Kindu.
After a week of battling for Kindu, rebel fighters had made  little progress and failed to capture the town outright.
The rebels  see Kindu as a major prize in their two-month revolt against President  Laurent Kabila, whom they accuse of mismanagement, corruption and  warmongering among Congo's 400 tribes.
Kabila has turned Kindu into  a launching pad for a counteroffensive against rebel positions in  eastern Congo.
The conflict has drawn in many of Congo's neighbors.
There are unconfirmed reports that troops from Chad and the Sudan  are involved in defending Kindu.
Kabila accuses Rwanda and Uganda  former allies who installed him in power in May 1997 after an eight-month  rebellion _ of sponsoring the new fighting.
Both countries say they  have legitimate security interests in eastern Congo and accuse Kabila  of failing to rid the common border area of Rwandan and Ugandan rebels.
Tanks, aircraft and troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia are supporting  Kabila.
The assistance was essential in routing an early rebel offensive  in the west that had reached the outskirts of Kinshasa in mid-August.
The rebels say they now control one-third of Kindu and are poised  to overrun the rest of the town.
Under a scorching sun, the column  of rebel reinforcements heading to Kindu sneaked through abandoned  roadside hamlets.
The silence of their march was interrupted only  by the singing of crickets and the clanging of the bullet belts hanging  around the soldiers' necks.
Soldiers walked by empty huts made of  mud and palm leaves.
Some rested in the shade of the umbrella-shaped  acacia trees.
The soldiers stopped for the night at the bridge over  the chocolate-colored Elila River, which guards the path to Kindu.
There was no immediate comment on the latest developments from the  government in Kinshasa, which claimed earlier in the week it was in  control of the tarmac bridge.
A day after shooting down a jetliner carrying 40 people, rebels clashed  with government troops near a strategic airstrip in eastern Congo  on Sunday.
Fighting for the town of Kindu in this vast West African  nation subsided after rebels launched an artillery barrage into government-held  buildings and the airfield, two miles (three kilometers) away.
On  Saturday, the rebels shot down a Congolese Boeing 727 over the Kindu  airport.
Rescue workers said there were no survivors from the downed  plane, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported Sunday.
Rebels said  the airplane was carrying 40 troops and ammunition.
In the capital,  Kinshasa, the private Congolese Airlines, which owned the aircraft,  said the victims were civilians fleeing fighting in Kindu.
It was  not possible to confirm either claim independently.
Rebel commander  Fino Kabangu Kalunga said surface-to-air missiles in the arsenal of  his Congolese Democratic Coalition had prevented the government from  landing aircraft at the airport.
Kabangu Kalunga said 3,500 rebel  troops and their Rwandan allies had closed in on government forces  from three directions after a week of fighting.
He said government  troops did not launch a counterattack to Sunday's barrage, and some  reportedly retreated on the one road leading out of town.
The rebels  say they now control one-third of Kindu, which the government has  used as a staging area for a counteroffensive against rebel positions  in the east.
Rebels, who began their insurgency more than two months  ago, accuse President Laurent Kabila of corruption, failing to carry  out promised democratic reforms, and stirring up hatred among Congo's  400 tribes.
Early in the conflict, rebels pushed far into the west,  to the outskirts of Congo's capital.
Then Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia  intervened to help Kabila and drove the rebels back to their bases  in eastern Congo.
The conflict has drawn in many of Congo's neighbors.
There are unconfirmed reports that troops from Chad and the Sudan  are involved in defending Kindu.
Kabila accuses Rwanda and Uganda  former allies who installed him in power in May 1997 after an eight-month  rebellion _ of sponsoring the rebels.
Both countries say they have  legitimate security interests in eastern Congo and accuse Kabila of  failing to rid the common border area of Rwandan and Ugandan rebels.
Back in the golden years, Kasuku wa Ngeyo had a farm and was the head  of a 25,000-strong farmers organization in the northeastern breadbasket  of this central African nation.
A quarter of a century later, the  56-year-old businessman who also ran hotels and a tourist camp is  broke; the farmers group is a memory.
Inter-tribal rivalry, looting  soldiers, Rwandan refugees and two rebellions in as many years have  wiped out half a million head of cattle here, slashed coffee and tea  exports in half and turned Congo's bucolic eastern region of green  pastures, sparkling volcanic lakes and snow-capped mountains into  a war zone.
``Nobody is making money any more.
People are surviving  on a sack of beans.
They are tired of insecurity and have little hope  things will get better,'' said Kasuku, the son of an Italian settler  and a Rwandan Tutsi refugee mother.
On Aug. 2, Tutsis, political opponents,  and disenchanted members of President Laurent Kabila's army took up  arms, accusing Kabila of corruption, nepotism and fostering tribal  strife.
The war has split Africa's third-largest nation between the  government-held west and south and rebel-controlled east, and no political  settlement is in sight.
Goma, a small trading post at the head of  Lake Kivu in eastern Congo, is no longer the starting point for tourists  trekking to see mountain gorillas.
Today, its decaying buildings,  empty shops and crumbling guest houses are home to rebel leaders,  soldiers and people displaced by violence.
The rebels have promised  to revitalize the economy by reducing taxes to boost investment.
They  who haven't seen a paycheck  in months or years _ and invite investors to buy tea and coffee farms  and gold and diamond-mining concessions.
But the war has also increased  tribal animosity _ especially toward ethnic Tutsis, a tiny but highly  successful minority in the eastern region.
In 1990, the liberating  effect of early political freedoms revived unresolved land disputes  and led to clashes between the Rwandan Tutsis and Hutus _ who had  settled in eastern Congo since the 1930s.
Mai-Mai warriors _ armed  youths from the Hunde and Nande tribes who accuse Tutsis of stealing  their land, also joined the fighting.
In 1994, nearly 1 million Rwandan  refugees engulfed Goma, a town of 30,000.
Among them were former Hutu  soldiers and militiamen who took part in a 1994 genocide in neighboring  Rwanda in which more than half a million Tutsis were killed.
They  brought anti-Tutsi ideology with them and sold weapons to Congolese  tribes, who then joined in the persecution of Tutsi landowners and  ranchers.
``People misunderstood political freedoms for anarchy,''  said Safari Ngezayo, a farmer and hotel owner.
``We tried to mediate  between Tutsis and Hutus and other tribes, but how can you talk to  people who have blood on their hands and genocide in their heads?''
In late 1996, Congolese Tutsis backed by Rwanda attacked the refugee  camps, dislodged the Hutu fighters and forced most of the refugees  back home across the border.
After an eight-month rebellion backed  by Rwanda and Uganda, dictator Mobutu Sese Seko fled in May 1997,  and Kabila took power.
He quickly changed the name of the country  to Congo, from Zaire.
Few people in northeastern Congo expected another  rebellion so soon.
``I blame our politicians.
Then I blame the foreign  powers who kept meddling in our affairs.
It is they who supported  Mobutu and Kabila, and we are paying the interest,'' Kasuku said.
Prospects for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum scheduled for Nov. 14-18, 1998 in Malaysia were cast in doubt in September when the Malaysian Prime Minister fired and then arrested his deputy and expected successor who was very popular at home and abroad.
Widespread demonstrations occurred in Malaysia while presidents of Indonesia and the Philippines spoke of skipping the APEC meeting.
APEC also faced a gloomy financial picture with many of the region's economies mired in recession and high unemployment.
On the way to the forum a group of high powered U.S. investors made a pep talk in Thailand, but prospects remained dim.
Philippine and Indonesian presidents may not attend upcoming APEC summit in Malaysia due to Mahathir's arrest of Anwar.
Malaysian leaders discuss replacement for Anwar.
Philippine ambassador is asked to explain his president's support for Anwar.
Issues at upcoming APEC summit will include the Asian economic crisis and IMF.
Taiwan's president pressured by China to send representative.
Mahathir's economic and political moves will be issues at the summit.
World financial officials advise reform; topic likely to dominate talks.
US-ASEAN delegation to attend; likes Thai economic efforts.
APEC leaders to taste local Malaysian food at luncheon after summit.
The coming Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Malaysia will open with most Asian countries still in dire economic straits.
Thailand has made some reforms but reforms proposed by the International Monetary Fund have not been adopted by other nations.
Malaysia, on the eve of the meeting, discontinued trading in its currency, viewed as a quick fix.
Some world leaders, especially the presidents of the Philippines and Indonesia and also President Clinton, have second thoughts about attending the meeting because of Malaysia's arrest and treatment of former deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim.
He was charged with corruption and homosexual activity.
A gloomy economic picture is facing Pacific-rim nations as they prepare for the Asian-Pacific economic summit in late November.
The debates will focus on the global economy and reforms verses quick fixes such as capitol controls.
Host Malaysia is in disarray over the firing, arrest and trial of the deputy prime minister, who has the support of the presidents of Indonesia and the Philippines.
These men may not join the other 15 heads of state and the Taiwanese chief economic planner at the summit.
Many fortunes, including Japan's and Clinton's, have fallen since the last meeting.
Only good news is new reform plans in Thailand and a spicy, Malaysian lunch.
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie finds attending a summit of Asia-Pacific  leaders ``difficult'' because of his concerns about the arrest of  Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, a Thai newspaper reported  Sunday.
Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia  for an annual economics meeting.
Last week, Philippine President Joseph  Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic  Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest.
``I'm very concerned  over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted  as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation.
``I'm concerned  because people should not forget that Anwar Ibrahim had contributed  a lot for the benefit of his country.''
Anwar is a charismatic politician  who was once picked to be the successor to Malaysia's long-serving  Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
But he was suddenly fired by Mahathir  on Sept. 2 after the two differed on economic policy.
He then began  speaking out against Mahathir and was arrested Sept. 20.
Anwar has  been accused of engaging in homosexual acts illegal under Malaysia  law, but the charges are generally seen as a pretext for his political  persecution.
In a court appearance last week, Anwar's face was bruised  and he said he had been beaten by police, heightening international  and I  think it is universal _ people should be given the chance to defend  themselves,'' Habibie was quoted as saying in the interview conducted  Saturday.
``People should not be tortured.''
Habibie said Anwar's  dismissal should not have been based ``on things which had not been  proven.''
On attending the APEC meeting, he said, ``It's difficult  for me.''
But he said he would consult parliament, adding, ``I'm not  coming personally but as the president of 211 million people of Indonesia.''
Like Estrada, Habibie served as his country's vice president when  Anwar was deputy prime minister, making them counterparts on the international  affairs circuit.
The leaders of Malaysia's ruling party met Tuesday to discuss a replacement  for ousted deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, who faces trial next  month in a case that will test the country's legal system.
Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad, 72, said last week he could ``drop dead'' at any  time.
But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's  job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision  was not expected quickly.
The party leaders, who have been conducting  a national campaign to explain to Malaysians why the popular Anwar  was fired Sept. 2, will also confer on what to do now that the High  Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence.
The ruling coalition had scheduled a giant rally in the capital Saturday,  aimed at drawing in the youth to whom Anwar's campaign of reform has  the most appeal.
Mahathir, who had heart bypass surgery in 1989, had  groomed Anwar, 51, as his successor.
But he fired his protege from  his posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister on grounds  he was morally unfit to lead.
The two had differed over economic policy  and Anwar has said Mahathir feared he was a threat to his 17-year  rule.
Anwar was also dumped from the ruling party, and after two weeks  of nationwide rallies at which he called for government reform and  Mahathir's resignation, he was arrested under a law that allows police  to hold him indefinitely, and prevent him from seeing his family and  lawyers.
On Tuesday, Mahathir denounced demonstrators who had flocked  by the thousands to the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur in recent  weeks, calling them part of a plot to topple the government.
Baton-wielding  riot police had dispersed the crowds with tear gas and water cannons,  arresting more than 100 people.
``They decided that the government  should be brought down through demonstrations, riots,'' the Bernama  news agency quoted Mahathir as saying in Sarawak state on Borneo Island.
He was expected to return to Kuala Lumpur later Tuesday to chair the  UMNO meeting.
After Anwar appeared in court with a black eye, bruised  face, neck and arms, his case drew international attention, particularly  from the presidents of the Philippines and Indonesia, who have raised  the possibility they might not attend an 18-nation summit in Malaysia  next month.
The United States would downgrade President Bill Clinton's  visit to Kuala Lumpur next month if Anwar continued to be mistreated,  the Wall Street Journal quoted an official in Washington as saying.
Clinton is scheduled to go to Malaysia for the meeting of the Asia-Pacific  Economic Cooperation forum.
Wearing a neck brace Monday after a court-ordered  hospital checkup, Anwar was ordered to stand trial Nov. 2 on four  charges of abusing his powers to interfere with a police investigation.
His trial is to halt on Nov. 14 and resume after the APEC meetings.
He has pleaded innocent to all charges, including another corruption  count and five charges of sodomy.
He faces 14 years in prison and  a fine on each corruption count and 20 years, plus whipping, on each  sexual charge, if convicted.
Anwar was arrested Sept. 20 under the  Internal Security Act, which allows jail without trial.
Under the  same law, police also arrested 17 people considered Anwar associates  and a risk to national security.
As of Tuesday, 12 had been released.
The UMNO supreme council was expected to prepare a list of top candidates  for Anwar's job for Mahathir's final decision.
The Star newspaper,  which is close to the government, listed the favorites as Foreign  Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and Education Minister Najib Tun Razak.
Other top contenders included Mahathir's confidant Daim Zainuddin,  a former finance minister brought back into the Cabinet in June as  ``special functions minister'' in charge of economic recovery.
Rafidah  Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh  Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running.
After an unusual, one-on-one chat Tuesday night, the Philippine and  Indonesian presidents were considering staying away from an Asia-Pacific  summit in Malaysia to protest the treatment of their jailed friend  Anwar Ibrahim.
Both presidents have hinted they might not attend the  meeting of the 18 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation nations next month  in the Malaysian capital out of concern for Anwar.
The former deputy  prime minister and finance minister of Malaysia was arrested Sept.
20 on corruption and illegal sex charges, then brought to court with  a black eye and bruises.
Philippine President Joseph Estrada told  business and political leaders in Singapore on Tuesday that he had  not made up his mind.
Estrada called Anwar his friend and said, ``I  think all of us here believe that due process and human rights should  be respected.''
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie may also stay away,  his foreign minister, Ali Alatas, said after the two new Southeast  Asian leaders held a half-hour private meeting.
If Habibie passes  up APEC, Alatas said, it will be because ``he has difficulty leaving  the country while there is no vice president, while there are so many  problems to deal with.''
Habibie has already canceled a state visit  to Malaysia, citing difficulties at home.
The meeting was delayed  for almost 90 minutes when a mechanical fault was discovered in one  of two Indonesian helicopters that were to have flown Estrada and  his entourage through heavy rain from Singapore.
A ferry was chartered  for the 45-minute sea journey.
Habibie apologized when Estrada finally  arrived at the Melia Panorama Hotel.
Estrada replied, ``That's all  right.''
The two men, who have each been in power less than five months,  met alois June 30 inaugural speech to give the underclass a fairer  share of the country's wealth.
Habibie took office May 21, hours after  his predecessor and mentor, Suharto, was forced from power after national  protests and street riots over Indonesia's collapsing economy.
The Philippine ambassador to Malaysia said Friday he was summoned  to the Malaysian Foreign Ministry to explain his president's statements  in support of dissident Anwar Ibrahim.
Ambassador Jose Brillantes  said in a radio interview from Kuala Lumpur that he was called Thursday  after the Malaysian dissident's eldest daughter met Philippine President  Joseph Estrada.
``They expressed their concern about what's happening  and the statements coming out of the Philippines,'' Brillantes told  radio station DZXL in Manila.
Brillantes said he explained that following  the 1986 ``people power'' revolt against the late dictator Ferdinand  Marcos, Filipinos' react ``strongly'' to ``real and perceived violations  of human rights.''
``I just explained our culture to them,'' he said.
Anwar was fired as deputy premier in September and later arrested,  appearing in court with a black eye, bruises and a neck brace.
He  says he was beaten by security guards.
Estrada has expressed support  for Anwar, whom he considers a personal friend, and indicated he may  not attend a summit of Asia Pacific Rim nations in Malaysia next month.
He has also said Anwar should be held in house arrest during his upcoming  trial on corruption and sexual misconduct charges.
Anwar has denied  the charges, calling them politically motivated.
On Thursday, Estrada  told Anwar's daughter, Nurul Izzah, to tell her father ``not to waver  because he is fighting for a cause, the cause of the Malaysian people.''
He said, however, that his support is personal and moral and not meant  to interfere in the internal problems of Malaysia.
Brillantes said:  ``The expression of personal opinion is allowed in our culture and  it is not surprising for that to happen.''
He also said ``there is  no connection'' between Anwar's case and the summit meeting in Malaysia  of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
``We still consider,  as expressed by our president, that APEC is important to us,'' he  said.
He did not say how the Malaysian officials reacted, but he said  he was not reprimanded.
Meanwhile, a group Philippine legislators  said they plan to attend Anwar's trial, which opens Nov. 2.
``We feel  that being observers to his trial will be our silent statement of  our democratic aspirations for all Asia,'' the group said in a statement.
The last time the Asia-Pacific region held its annual summit to promote  free trade, Japan's prime minister assured everyone that his economy  wouldn't be the next victim of Asia's financial crisis.
Canada, the  host country, was criticized by some in Canada for cracking down on  demonstrations against Suharto, Indonesia's iron-fisted ruler at the  time.
And President Bill Clinton, whose popularity and booming economy  were the envy of the planet, joined everyone else in urging countries  such as Thailand and South Korea to bite the bullet and comply with  the tough economic reforms that the International Monetary Fund was  demanding.
My, how the challenges have grown, as the 21-nation Asia-Pacific  Economic Cooperation forum prepares for its November summit in Malaysia.
the world's second largest economy, and Asia's financial anchor  _ is suffering through its worst recession since World War II, and  that bad news cost Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job.
Suharto,  who ruled Indonesia for 32 years, was driven out of power by a violent,  pro-democracy movement, and the world's fourth most populous country  is in real trouble financially.
Wall Street is now coping with a steep  downturn.
And even though Clinton has promised to attend the APEC  meeting, some people wonder how he can do that while facing an impeachment  inquiry back home, thanks to the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal.
Worse  still, Asia's economic crisis is showing signs of going global, and  more and more economists are criticizing the IMF for the way it is  handling its bailouts.
Other well-respected economists are going even  further, questioning whether a free-market philosophy doesn't leave  some countries too vulnerable to the chaos of major market speculators.
In fact, Malaysia isn't the only country trying self-defense mechanisms  such as capital controls.
Hong Kong recently spent a fortune investing  in its stock market to ward off speculators.
And Washington is trying  to figure out what to do with hedge funds after watching its Federal  Reserve help bail out a major one that was going under, and seeing  the investments of others send the U.S. dollar into a tailspin against  Japan's yen.
Ironically, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad,  who made one of his typical anti-free-market comments during last  year's summit, probably could have opened this year's with an ``I  told you so.''
But even he is having major domestic problems.
Mahathir,  72, who is widely credited with creating modern Malaysia during his  17 years in power, dismissed Anwar Ibrahim, his expected successor,  in an apparent dispute over how to battle the country's economic mess.
Instead of stepping aside, Anwar launched a reform movement across  Malaysia that quickly led to big rallies demanding that Mahathir step  down.
The prime minister used riot police to thwart the protests,  and jailed Anwar, charging him with corruption and sex crimes, and  scheduling his trial for Nov. 2.
The trial will be interrupted during  the Nov. 12-18 APEC meetings, but Mahathir's treatment of Anwar and  his reform movement already have been criticized by APEC members such  as Australia, Indonesia, the Philippines and the United States.
President  B.J. Habibie of Indonesia and Philippine President Joseph Estrada  consider Anwar a friend, and Estrada won't say whether he plans to  attend this year's APEC summit.
John S. Wolf, the U.S. ambassador  for APEC, recently acknowledged that it won't be easy for APEC members  to meet in Malaysia as the Asian crisis ``ricochets around the world  with no clear sign what will happen next.''
But he also said the leaders  of the 21 APEC members should aim for a productive meeting.
Wolf said  such gatherings give members a chance to discuss IMF bailout strategies  and the free-market philosophy, to resolve bilateral disputes, and  to continue to reduce tariff rates to help struggling countries improve  their exports.
``This has been a lousy year in general.
It has affected  all of us.
It has set APEC back, and there is no silver bullet to  solve the crisis right away,'' said Wolf.
``But we should welcome  the chance to work together and to develop a sense of what's possible.''
So far, APEC has been criticized for doing little during the financial  crisis.
But next month it hopes to complete a plan that would lift  trade barriers in nine key industries: environmental products and  services, energy, fisheries, forestry, toys, jewelry, medical goods,  chemical products and telecommunications.
Besides the United States,  APEC, which accounts for half of all global trade _ consists of these  members: Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia,  Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines,  Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.
During the Malaysia meeting,  APEC also will include three new members: Russia _ one of the latest  victims of the financial crisis _ Vietnam and Peru.
Again bowing to Chinese pressure, Taiwan will send its chief economic  planner to represent President Lee Teng-hui at November's Asian Pacific  Economic Cooperation forum summit in Kuala Lumpur, the Foreign Ministry  said Friday.
Lee decided to send Chiang Pin-kung to the informal leaders  summit on Nov. 17-18 after ``giving much thought'' to an invitation  from Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, the ministry said.
with the  understanding that it will be politely refused _ is an annual formality  that allows Taiwan to maintain a semblance of dignity and the host  to avoid controversy with China.
Beijing's threat to boycott APEC's  annual meeting if Lee attends has forced him to send a stand-in every  year since the inaugural summit in 1993.
China claims Taiwan as a  breakaway province and argues that only sovereign nations are allowed  to send their heads of state.
APEC groups Australia, Brunei, Canada,  Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia,  Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore,  Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.
Russia, Vietnam and Peru will  join in November.
Top finance officials from 14 countries in the Asia-Pacific region  advised Asia's battered economies on Sunday to adopt further reforms  in their effort to restore stability.
Among the necessary steps is  for countries to restructure their economies and corporations to make  them less susceptible to abuse by narrow political interests, the  officials suggested.
The deputy finance ministers and deputy central  bank governors met for two days to review progress on the ``Manila  Framework,'' an agreement reached last November that aims to promote  regional economic stability.
Many of Asia's economies have plunged  into recession since that agreement.
Collapsed currencies, weakened  demand and higher unemployment now characterize a region that once  boasted some of the world's highest economic growth rates.
The worsening  financial gloom is likely to dominate talks at next week's summit  in Kuala Lumpur of leaders from the 18-nation Asia-Pacific Economic  Cooperation forum.
The summit is to take place on Nov. 17-18.
In a  joint statement, the officials cited risks including slower global  growth, with particular mention of Russia's worsening economy, and  the need to speed up social programs to help the poor in the worst-hit  countries.
Stanley Fischer, deputy managing director of the International  Monetary Fund, noted that some countries have already reformed their  banking sectors.
But he stressed the need for corporate restructuring  as well.
``These are not easy things to do,'' he said.
Meanwhile,  Malaysia's most prominent dissident predicted that the country's prime  minister would declare ``a state of emergency'' after the APEC meeting  ends in Kuala Lumpur, a report said Sunday.
Former Deputy Prime Minister  Anwar Ibrahim, now on trial on charges of corruption and sexual misconduct,  made the warning in an interview with Monday's edition of Time magazine.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad fired Anwar in September, saying he  was morally unfit to lead, then had him expelled from Malaysia's ruling  party.
Anwar denies the allegations and says they were fabricated  because Mahathir considered his popularity a threat to the prime minister's  17-year rule.
The agenda might be global, but the menu will be Malaysian when world  leaders meet next week for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Pacific Rim leaders, including U.S. President Bill Clinton, will sample  local dishes at a luncheon planned for the end of their two-day summit.
It's expected to be a hot affair.
Spicy delicacies on the menu are  satay kajang, a beef or chicken kebab in peanut sauce; ayam percik,  chicken curry with chilies; soto ayam, a Malaysian chicken soup, and  fried rice ``village-style,'' the Star newspaper reported in Monday  editions.
Desert will be simple: fresh tropical fruit, said Maleia  Marsden, general manager of the Cyberview Lodge, where the leaders  were expected to stay during the summit Nov. 17-18.
APEC groups Australia,  Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea,  Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines,  Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.
Russia, Vietnam  and Peru will also join APEC this year.
A group of high-powered U.S. investors in Southeast Asia on Monday  applauded efforts to perk up Thailand's staggering economy, saying  they had been assured by top Thai officials that key economic reform  packages will soon be approved.
After meetings with Thai Cabinet members,  including Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai, members of the U.S.-ASEAN  Business Council said they were confident in the future of Thailand's  economy and promised their companies would continue to invest here  and elsewhere in the region.
``We would be quick as observers to applaud  the aggressiveness of the reform packages that we see being proposed  in front of your government today,'' said business council chairman  George David, who is also chairman and CEO of United Technologies  Corp.
Thailand was hit hard by last year's Asian economic crisis,  and the proposed economic reform legislation focuses on resolving  the massive bad debt of private companies, which is hindering a recovery.
``This is very aggressive, good reform.
It's very impressive,'' David  said, adding that Finance Minister Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda promised  Parliament would pass reform measures in ``months, not years.''
The  U.S.-ASEAN Business Council is a private organization comprising about  300 U.S. companies with substantial investments in Southeast Asia.
David said the five executives in the delegation represented dlrs  300 billion in assets.
The council's lobbying efforts with the U.S.  and Southeast Asian governments have concentrated on removing tariffs  and other barriers to overseas trade.
The delegation will travel to  Kuala Lumpur for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum Nov.
14-18.
David said free trade should be a focus of discussions among  the government leaders attending.
``What I hope they will say at APEC  is a very strong affirmation of the free-trade agenda and a very strong  affirmation of the foreign direct investment agenda,'' he added.
In little more than a week, the world's leaders will converge on this  businesslike city in the heart of Southeast Asia for the annual meeting  of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
They could hardly  be meeting in a more provocative place.
On Sept. 1, Malaysia discontinued  trading in its currency, the ringgit, and imposed sweeping controls  on the flow of capital in its stock and currency markets, particularly  on investment from overseas.
In doing so, the Malaysian prime minister,  Mahathir Mohamad, in effect slammed the door on the global economy  that President Clinton and the other leaders are coming here to champion.
Mahathir's decision drew jeers from international investors and policy-  makers, who warned that Malaysia was seeking a quick fix that would  retard its desperately needed reforms and leave it the odd man out  when Asia finally recovered from the regional malaise.
Now, though,  Mahathir's allies are marshaling new economic data that they say indicate  that capital controls are breathing new life into the country's moribund  economy.
Malaysia's foreign reserves rose strongly in September, and  there is anecdotal evidence that consumers are starting to spend again.
``It's nice to be able to say that since we adopted capital controls,  the economy has improved,'' said Zainal Aznam Yusof, the deputy director  of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies, a research  organization here that helped draft the policies.
``But we want to  see whether this is strongly sustainable.''
Critics said it was predictable  that capital controls would be a short-term tonic to Malaysia's economy.
Because the country is sheltered from the vagaries of capital flows  and currency fluctuations, they said, the government had been able  to ease interest rates and encourage consumer spending.
Still, the  mere fact that Malaysia's experiment has yielded some positive results  guarantees that the issue will come up during the APEC meeting.
With  Mahathir leading the campaign, the cause of capital controls will  have a fiery advocate who has a penchant for getting under the skin  of Westerners.
``Mahathir is a very outspoken political leader,''  said Chia Yew Boon, an independent analyst in Singapore.
``There is  no way the likes of Clinton or Jiang Zemin are going to be able to  muzzle him,'' he added, referring to President Jiang of China.
Policy-makers  in the United States have expressed fears that if Malaysia's gambit  is seen as successful, other economically weakened countries in the  region, like Indonesia, might be tempted to try it.
So far, Indonesian  officials have said they would stick to the recovery plan devised  by the International Monetary Fund, which stresses economic austerity  and open markets.
But officials in Japan have expressed some sympathy  for Mahathir's policies, while Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology, has advocated using them as an emergency  measure.
Yusof said recent events had vindicated Malaysia's contention  that it needed to insulate itself from the ravages of the global financial  system.
He said the recent near-collapse of a prominent American hedge  fund underscored how sudden flows of capital can have destructive  consequences.
The Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund, based in  Greenwich, Conn., was nearly wrecked by a series of wrong bets on  Treasury securities after the collapse of the economy in Russia prompted  a flight of capital out of that country.
``The LTCM fiasco really  provides a case study of what could go wrong in the global economy,''  Yusof said.
With capital controls as protection, Yusof said Malaysia  was picking up the pieces of its shattered economy.
In addition to  growing foreign reserves, he said Malaysia had improved its trade  balance and revived consumer purchases of durable goods.
Foreign investors  have also not wholly abandoned Malaysia, as experts had predicted  to  $142 million, from an average monthly rate of $321 million for the  period from January through September _ it did not dry up completely.
For every comforting statistic, though, the critics produce an alarming  one.
They said the increase in Malaysia's foreign reserves was merely  due to the new capital restrictions, which stipulated that Malaysian  currency held outside the country would be worthless unless repatriated  by Sept. 30.
The skeptics also noted that bank lending declined in  September, despite several reductions in interest rates.
So the consumers  who are buying new cars and home appliances are merely dipping into  their savings, which means the buying spree will end when their savings  are depleted.
``The argument was that by imposing capital controls,  you'd regain control over monetary policy, which would increase the  supply of money and lessen the liquidity crunch,'' said K.S. Jomo,  a professor of political economy at the University of Malaya here.
``But that's not happening.''
The biggest flaw in Malaysia's policy,  Jomo and others said, is its timing.
With the Asian crisis more than  a year old, much of the foreign capital that was in the country has  already gone.
The critics said Mahathir had spooked would-be investors  without even locking in the ones who used to be here.
``There is a  case to be made for the temporary imposition of capital controls,  but to avert a crisis, not to respond to one,'' Jomo said.
In fact,  other Asian currencies, like the Indonesian rupiah and the Thai baht,  have actually rebounded since Malaysia suspended trading in its currency  and fixed the exchange rate at 3.8 ringgit to the dollar.
Analysts  liken the situation to buying an insurance policy for a disaster that  has come and gone.
More important, the capital controls are slowing  down much-needed corporate and banking reforms.
The government's rescue  of Renong, a major conglomerate with close ties to Mahathir, is going  ahead, though some analysts predict the government will eventually  scrap the much-criticized plan.
The rescue of politically connected  companies remains a tense issue here.
On Monday, during the trial  of Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on charges  of corruption and sex-related crimes, Anwar angrily denied Mahathir's  claim that he had approved the bailout.
Anwar's sensational trial  is a reminder that Mahathir's economic policies cannot be disentangled  from politics.
Malaysia's 72-year-old prime minister clashed with  his former protege over how to respond to the Asian crisis, and he  dismissed Anwar the day after imposing capital controls.
During boom  times, Mahathir won support for his policies by wrapping them in anti-foreigner  language.
In a speech on Monday, he attacked a familiar target, saying  foreign currency traders ``are the cause of the currency turmoil,''  adding: ``They spread it worldwide.
They precipitated the current  recession in every country.''
But Mahathir's treatment of Anwar has  stirred anger and sparked growing social unrest in Malaysia.
With  protesters chanting for reform on the usually orderly streets of this  city, experts said Mahathir needed capital controls to work in order  to soothe the country's agitated population.
``Things will heat up  if the economy does not improve,'' said Chandra Muzaffar, a professor  of political science at the University of Malaya.
``Then the whole  question of Mahathir and his leadership will remain an issue.''
In  that regard, at least, the leaders who converge on Kuala Lumpur in  two weeks will be able to identify with their embattled host.
On Nov. 6, 1998 a suicide auto-bomb attack on a Jerusalem market killed two Palestinian "martyrs" and wounded 21 Israelis.
Israel's cabinet immediately suspended consideration of the Wye peace agreement and the Prime Minister vowed to expand Jewish settlement in the Arab sector of Jerusalem.
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the bombing and identified the Wye accord as its target.
Israel called for outlawing Islamic Jihad and Hamas while the Palestinians accused Israel as using the bombing as a pretext for delaying implementation of Wye.
The "martyrs", 21 and 24, were both alumni of Israeli jails.
After a bombing in a Jerusalem market Fri., the Israeli Cabinet postponed indefinitely its vote on the Wye River peace accord.
At first, Hamas claimed responsibility for attack in which 2 suicide bombers were killed and 24 people were hurt.
On Sat.
, Islamic Holy War (Islamic Jihad) took credit for attack, vowing more to block the accord.
Israel would not debate or vote on the accord until Palestinians took steps to stop terrorism and outlaw military wings of radical groups.
Israel intends to continue building homes in Jerusalem, including in Arab sector.
One of the Palestinian suicide bombers had spent much of his teen years in Israeli prisons.
A car bomb exploded prematurely near a busy Jerusalem market killing the two suicide bombers and injuring 21 Israelis.
One of the Islamic Jihad "martyrs" had said he was "going to Paradise".
The Israeli cabinet was meeting at the time of the explosion and they put off ratification of the Wye River "land for security" accord.
The Islamic Jihad promises more attacks in hope of derailing the accord.
The US expects, at least hopes, for ratification.
PM Netanyahu vows to continue Jewish building in Jerusalem and Israel demanded that radical Islamic groups be outlawed.
The Palestinian Authority condemned the attack and claimed to have already made some arrests
The Wye River accord has not been implemented.
As the Israeli cabinet was considering the agreement, Islamic Jihad militants exploded a car bomb in nearby Mahane Yehuda market.
The cabinet suspended ratification of the agreement, demanding the Palestinian Authority take steps against terrorism.
Further, after the bombing, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu announced the resumption of construction of a new settlement, Har Homa, in a traditionally Arab area east of Jerusalem.
Israel also demands that Arafat outlaw the military wings of Islamic Jihad and Hamas.
The attack injured 24 Israelis, but only the two assailants, Sughayer and Tahayneh, were killed.
Israel's Cabinet announced within hours of a market bombing Friday  that it will put off a vote indefinitely on whether to ratify the  Wye River accord until Palestinians crack down further on terrorism.
Israel radio said the 18-member Cabinet debate on the Wye River accord  would resume only after Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority fulfilled  all of its commitments under the agreement, including arresting Islamic  militants.
The Cabinet also insisted that Arafat convene the Palestinian  National Council, a parliament in exile, to abrogate the Palestinian  National Charter, which calls for Israel's destruction.
The Israeli  Cabinet had convened for a second day in an attempt to approve the  Wye agreement.
``To our sorrow, since the Wye agreement ... there  has been relentless terrorist attacks against Israeli citizens,''  according to a Cabinet statement read on the radio.
Israel radio quoted  officials saying the Cabinet would also decide to renew construction  of the Har Homa neighborhood in the traditionally Arab sector of Jerusalem.
Groundbreaking there in March 1997 led to a break-off in negotiations  with the Palestinians.
A car rigged with explosives blew up Friday morning in Jerusalem's  Mahane Yehuda market packed with Israelis shopping for the Jewish  Sabbath, killing two people and wounding 21.
The Islamic militant  group Hamas, which has tried to stop the peace agreement, claimed  responsibility, police said.
In response to the attack, the Israeli  cabinet suspended ratification of the Wye agreement until there ``is  verification that the Palestinian authority is indeed fighting terrorism.''
The Israeli Cabinet also announced it will begin to build houses in  the controversial Jewish settlement of Har Homa in east Jerusalem.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had held up the work in recent months  in an apparent attempt to not disrupt negotiations with the Palestinians.
Aides to Netanyahu were not immediately available for comment.
The  Cabinet ministers had just begun a second day of of talks on the peace  agreement about a mile (kilometer) away from the entrance to the market  and just meters (yards) from the site of a suicide bombing last year.
In Friday's explosion, the rigged car, a red Fiat, blew up at about  9:45 a.m. (0745 GMT) at the entrance of Mahane Yehuda market, just  meters (yards) away from the site of a suicide bombing in July 1997.
Witnesses heard a series of small explosions.
Yair Cohen, 43, said  he was buying cookies when he saw a car driving slowly, with smoke  coming out of the hood and exhaust pipes.
``People started to shout  `car on fire.'
After a while, we heard a blast, and something hit  me in the stomach,'' said Cohen who was treated for minor injuries  at Hadassah Hospital.
The car was a mass of twisted metal sitting  in the middle of the main intersection outside the market.
Flames  shot 100 feet (30 meters) in the air.
A charred corpse, covered by  a blanket, lay several meters away.
Streams of soot-black water ran  in the street.
Another bare-legged body lay in the street, face down,  in a pool of blood below the head.
Rescue workers covered the body  with sodden pieces of cardboard box and plastic shopping bags.
``There  was hysteria, people were running,'' said Eliad Duan, an Israeli border  policeman who was patrolling the market and was lightly injured.
One  heavy-set woman, apparently in shock, climbed into an ambulance, weeping.
Three paramedics talked to her, persuading her that she did not need  medical treatment, and after a few moments she climbed out of the  vehicle again.
Soldiers and police wearing plastic gloves held back  stay back!''
they shouted.
Just a block  away from the blast, shoppers went about their business.
One young  woman shopper said: ``We can't stop with what we are doing when this  happens.''
Hassan Asfour, a Palestinian peace negotiator, said the  Palestinian Authority condemned the attack.
``This is a crime and  whoever commits this, hurts the interests of the Palestinian people.''
Blood and soot-blackened water ran in rivulets from the charred wreckage.
A burly policeman bent to cover a bloodied corpse with whatever was  a sodden piece of cardboard, a plastic shopping bag.
Two  people were killed and at least 21 injured when an explosives-rigged  car blew up Friday at Jerusalem's Mahane Yehuda market, only meters  (yards) from the site of a suicide bombing 16 months ago.
At police  barricades set up along Jerusalem's busiest thoroughfare, soldiers  and police held back crowds of people, some frantic about loved ones  who had been shopping in the crowded market only hours before the  start of the Jewish Sabbath.
``Please, please, is there a girl with  red hair who is hurt?''
an older, heavyset woman said tearfully, trying  to push her way past police.
A young female soldier patted her arm  consolingly.
Some of the onlookers gave vent to fury over the new  peace agreement, which was being debated by Israel's Cabinet even  as the blast occurred.
``Death to Arabs!
Death to Arafat!''
a small  crowd of demonstrators shouted.
Police tried to grab one of them,  but he escaped into the crowd.
The explosives-rigged car was a mass  of twisted metal, with only the steering column intact.
Next to the  wreckage lay a completely charred body with stumps of arms and legs  _ apparently that of the bomber.
Witnesses said they heard a series  of explosions.
Although shop windows closest to the car were shattered,  market stalls only a few more feet (yards) away were completely intact,  and stacked with neat piles of bananas and onions.
Eyewitness Yaakov  Shlomo said initial, smaller blasts scared most onlookers away.
``When  the big explosion went, there were already not that many people nearby,''  he said.
``That was a miracle from heaven.''
Shlomo Meir, a black-clad  Orthodox Jew, was standing nearby when he heard a blast.
When he tuirned  he saw fire.
``It was terrible,'' he said, red-eyed.
``I thought,  `Again!'''
Only a block away, some stalls were still open and shoppers  were buying produce.
One woman, with almost maniacal determination,  sorted through a pile of oranges.
``We can't stop what we're doing  when this happens,'' she said grimly.
By the police barricades, wearing  bright-orange vests, stood a group of Orthodox Jewish volunteers who  search scenes of accidents and attacks for body parts, in keeping  with their religious belief that bodies must be buried intact.
One  young volunteer squinted down the street as his group waited for permission  to begin its grisly task.
``It's hard, this work, but it's very important  to us,'' he said.
Israel's Cabinet decided Friday to suspend indefinitely its ratification  of the land-for-security agreement with the Palestinians.
The decision  came less than three hours after a car rigged with explosives blew  up in an outdoor market in downtown Jersualem.
Two people were killed  and 21 others were wounded in the attack for which the Islamic militant  group Hamas claimed responsibility.
The Cabinet said it would not  resume its debate or hold a vote on the accord until the Palestinian  Authority has taken steps against terrorism.
The Cabinet also said  it would not resume the ratification process until Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat has clarified the procedure for revoking clauses in  the PLO founding charter calling for Israel's destruction.
The procedure  is part of the Wye River agreement negotiated last month.
However,  Israelis and Palestinians have widely divergent interpretations of  how the clauses should be rescinded.
Israel says it should be done  by a vote by the Palestine National Council.
The Palestinians say  a vote is not required.
The radical group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility Saturday for  the suicide bombing of a crowded Jerusalem market and promised more  attacks to try to block the new peace accord.
``This heroic operation  is not the first and not going to be the last,'' the group said in  a leaflet faxed to news organizations.
``We refuse any political agreement  that would recognize the Zionist enemy.''
The leaflet could not immediately  be authenticated, but its style was consistent with that of past communications  from the group.
An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of  Damascus confirmed that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah  claimed responsibility for Friday's bombing in an interview with the  Paris-based Radio Monte Carlo.
Palestinian security sources and the  families of the dead bombers had already identified them as Islamic  Jihad activists.
At least half a dozen other Islamic activists have  been rounded up since the bombing, the sources said.
Although Hamas  initially claimed responsibility through anonymous phone calls to  the police, all sides now have agreed that it was Islamic Jihad that  carried it out.
There was no immediate explanation for the inaccurate  claim, but the two groups have carried out attacks together in the  past as part of their goal of stopping the peace process.
A defiant Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday that Israel  would continue to build Jewish neighborhoods throughout Jerusalem,  including at a controversial site in the traditionally Arab sector  of the city.
``We will build also in Har Homa as we will build in  every part of Jerusalem,'' Netanyahu told a crowd of political supporters  in Jerusalem, ``By 2000 there will be homes at Har Homa.''
Har Homa  is the site of a planned Jewish neighborhood in traditionally Arab  east Jerusalem.
Groundbreaking at the site led to angry Palestinian  protests and a breakdown of peace talks in March 1997.
Netanyahu's  Cabinet delayed action on the new peace accord following Friday's  suicide bombing at a Jerusalem market, and his remarks about building  on Har Homa may be seen as a provocation by the Palestinians at a  politically sensitive moment.
U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright  expects Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few  days despite the market bombing, a television report said Saturday.
``The United States understands the delay by a day or two but expects  the agreement to be approved soon,'' Albright told Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu by phone, Channel Two reported.
The radical group  Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility Saturday for the market bombing  and vowed more attacks to try to block the new peace accord.
``This  heroic operation is not the first and not going to be the last,''  the group said in a leaflet faxed to news organizations.
``We refuse  any political agreement that would recognize the Zionist enemy.''
An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of Damascus confirmed  that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah claimed responsibility  for Friday's bombing in an interview with the Paris-based Radio Monte  Carlo.
Palestinian security sources and the families of the dead bombers  had already identified them as Islamic Jihad activists.
At least half  a dozen other Islamic activists have been rounded up since the bombing,  the sources said.
Palestinian political leaders said Israel should  not use Friday's suicide bombing, which killed the two assailants  and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse to stop the peace process.
One  of Israel's key demands is that the Palestinians do more to fight  attacks by Islamic militants against Israeli targets.
The Palestinians,  however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled areas  and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility  for the attack.
The Israeli military said it could not confirm the  suicide bombers' identities and hometowns, but they were disclosed  by Palestinian security officials and also reported by Palestinian  media.
One lived near the Anata refugee camp, north of Jerusalem,  and the other lived in the West Bank village of Silat al Harithiya,  outside the town of Jenin.
Both families held so-called mourning houses  on Saturday, but not actual funerals, since Israeli authorities still  have their bodies.
``I didn't raise him to lose him like that,'' said  Mohammed Zughayar, the 54-year-old father of Yusef Ali Mohammed Zughayar,  22.
``I'm proud, but I'm sad because I loved my son.''
The family  of Suleiman Musa Dahayneh, 24, said he had been married for three  months to Zughayar's sister, Basma.
They met when she was visiting  her brother, who was in prison with Dahayneh, the family said.
At  the market, some 200 observant Jews gathered Saturday night near the  site of the bombing to offer prayers of thanks that no lives other  than those of the assailants were lost.
A ring of young men wearing  skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle''  that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.
Although Hamas initially claimed responsibility through anonymous  phone calls to the police for Friday's attack all sides now have agreed  that it was Islamic Jihad that carried it out.
A defiant Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday that Israel  would continue to build Jewish neighborhoods throughout Jerusalem,  including at a controversial site in the traditionally Arab sector  of the city.
``We will build also in Har Homa as we will build in  every part of Jerusalem,'' Netanyahu told a crowd of political supporters  in Jerusalem, ``By 2000 there will be homes at Har Homa.''
Har Homa  is the site of a planned Jewish neighborhood in traditionally Arab  east Jerusalem, which Palestinians want to have as the capital of  their hoped-for independent state.
Groundbreaking at the site led  to angry Palestinian protests and a breakdown of peace talks in March  1997.
Netanyahu's Cabinet delayed action on the latest Israeli-Palestinian  accord following Friday's suicide bombing at a Jerusalem market, and  his remarks about building on Har Homa may be seen as a provocation  by the Palestinians at a politically sensitive moment.
U.S. Secretary  of State Madeleine Albright told Netanyahu by phone that she expects  Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few days  despite the market bombing, Channel Two television reported Saturday.
The radical group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility Saturday for  the market bombing and vowed more attacks to try to block the new  peace accord.
``This heroic operation is not the first and not going  to be the last,'' the group said in a leaflet faxed to news organizations.
``We refuse any political agreement that would recognize the Zionist  enemy.''
An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of Damascus  confirmed that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah claimed  responsibility for Friday's bombing in an interview with the Paris-based  Radio Monte Carlo.
Palestinian security sources and the families of  the dead bombers had already identified them as Islamic Jihad activists.
At least half a dozen other Islamic activists have been rounded up  since the bombing, the sources said.
Palestinian political leaders  said Israel should not use Friday's suicide bombing, which killed  the two assailants and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse to stop the  peace process.
One of Israel's key demands is that the Palestinians  do more to fight attacks by Islamic militants against Israeli targets.
The Palestinians, however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled  areas and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility  for the attack.
The Israeli military said it could not confirm the  suicide bombers' identities and hometowns, but they were disclosed  by Palestinian security officials and also reported by Palestinian  media.
One lived near the Anata refugee camp, north of Jerusalem,  and the other lived in the West Bank village of Silat al Harithiya,  outside the town of Jenin.
Both families held so-called mourning houses  on Saturday, but not actual funerals, since Israeli authorities still  have their bodies.
``I didn't raise him to lose him like that,'' said  Mohammed Zughayar, the 54-year-old father of Yusef Ali Mohammed Zughayar,  22.
``I'm proud, but I'm sad because I loved my son.''
The family  of Suleiman Musa Dahayneh, 24, said he had been married for three  months to Zughayar's sister, Basma.
They met when she was visiting  her brother, who was in prison with Dahayneh, the family said.
At  the market, some 200 observant Jews gathered Saturday night near the  site of the bombing to offer prayers of thanks that no lives other  than those of the assailants were lost.
A ring of young men wearing  skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle''  that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.
Although Hamas initially claimed responsibility through anonymous  phone calls to the police for Friday's attack all sides now have agreed  that it was Islamic Jihad that carried it out.
Setting the stage for a new quarrel over how to crack down on militants,  Israel is demanding that the military wings of two radical Islamic  groups be outlawed, while the Palestinian Authority insists it has  already banned them.
Implementation of the Israeli-Palestinian land-for-security  accord, signed Oct. 23 in Washington, was to have begun this past  week, but has hit various snags.
Most recently, Israel's Cabinet put  off a vote to ratify the accord after a suicide bombing Friday in  Jerusalem that killed the two assailants and injured 21 Israelis.
The radical group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility.
David Bar-Illan,  a top aide to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said Sunday  that Israel expects Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to formally outlaw  the military wings of Islamic Jihad and the larger militant group  Hamas.
Hassan Asfour, a senior Palestinian official, said Hamas' military  wing, Izeddine al Qassam, and the military wing of Islamic Jihad were  outlawed by the Palestinian Authority in 1996.
But Bar-Illan said  the Palestinian legislature had never passed such a law.
``Why did  Mr. Arafat agree in the Wye accord to outlaw them if he has already  done it?''
he asked.
The Wye memorandum states that the Palestinian  Authority ``will inform the United States fully of the actions it  has taken to outlaw all organizations (or wings of organizations,  as appropriate) of a military, terrorist or violent character, and  their support structure and to prevent them freedom of action in the  areas under its jurisdiction.''
A Palestinian security official, speaking  on condition of anonymity, said a joint Israeli-Palestinian meeting  was held Saturday night to discuss security in the wake of Friday's  attack.
Participants included the head of the Palestinian intelligence,  Amin Hindi, and the head of preventive security in the Gaza Strip,  Mohammed Dahlan.
The idea of outlawing Hamas and Islamic Jihad was  brought up in the meeting and also proposed by Netanyahu to Arafat  during a phone call, the official said.
The Palestinians said they  could ban activity by Hamas or Islamic Jihad that endangered either  Israelis or Palestinians, but could not outlaw them outright as political  movements.
Friday's bombing led to finger-pointing by both sides.
Israel said it showed Arafat's crackdown on terrorists had not been  sweeping enough.
The Palestinians, however, have also accused Israel  of failing to take at least partial security responsibility for the  attack, because both attackers came from Israeli-controlled areas,  and had recently served time in Israeli jails.
Israel as a rule is  harshly critical of the Palestinian Authority's security efforts when  attackers come from Palestinian-controlled areas or have been released  from Palestinian prisons.
On Sunday, Palestinian Justice Minister  Freih Abu-Medein accused Netanyahu of using the blast as a pretext  for delaying implementation of the peace accord.
``This attack is  a gift to Mr. Netanyahu,'' Abu-Medein said.
``All the time he is praying  to God to help him ... to escape from the agreement.''
Under the accord,  Israel is to hand over another 13 percent of the territory in the  West Bank to the Palestinians in exchange for various security steps.
Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai predicted Sunday that the  Israeli Cabinet would ratify the agreement in coming days.
``I estimate  that the government will meet this week and will accept the decision  of the majority (in favor of the agreement),'' he said.
The militant Palestinian movement Islamic Holy War said Saturday that  it carried out the suicide bombing in a Jerusalem market on Friday,  which prompted arrests by the Palestinian Authority overnight.
Palestinian  officials said they had jailed several of the small but radical group's  members from the West Bank, and raided and then shut down a nursery  school linked to the organization in Bethlehem, which is controlled  by the Palestinians.
The two bombers who carried out Friday's attack,  which led the Israeli Cabinet to suspend deliberations on the land-for-security  accord signed with the Palestinians last month, were identified as  members of Islamic Holy War from West Bank villages under Israeli  security control.
Ramadan Abdallah Shallah, the Damascus-based leader  of Islamic Holy War, said ``martyrs'' from his movement had carried  out the Jerusalem attack in response to Israel's settlement policy  and ``Judaization'' of the West Bank.
He spoke in an interview with  Monte Carlo Radio, an Arabic station broadcasting from Paris that  is widely listened to in the Middle East.
A leaflet signed by the  group and faxed to Reuters in Jerusalem said the ``heroic attack,''  in which 24 people were injured and the 2 bombers killed, had been  carried out ``to confront the great conspiracy that aims to liquidate  the Palestinian cause through the Oslo and Wye Plantation agreements  of submission.''
Islamic Holy War and its counterpart, Hamas, have  denounced as a sellout of Palestinian rights the 1993 Oslo self-rule  accord and the latest agreement, known as the Wye Memorandum, named  for the Wye Plantation in Maryland, where the deal was worked out  with strenuous American mediation.
Shallah's claim of responsibility  from abroad contrasted with the muted response of Islamic Holy War's  leadership in the Gaza Strip, which has reportedly given commitments  to the Palestinian Authority to refrain from such attacks.
``We have  no knowledge in the movement about the operation that occurred in  Jerusalem,'' said Nafez Azzam, a senior leader of Islamic Holy War  in Gaza.
``From its conditions we consider it likely that it was an  individual effort.''
The Palestinian cabinet, in a statement issued  after a meeting on Friday night, accused ``foreign forces'' of standing  behind the attack.
One cabinet member, who declined to be identified,  pointed a finger at Iran, saying a search of one bomber's home had  uncovered a letter he had written to the Iranian supreme leader, Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei, expressing condolences for the recent killing of several  Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan.
Iran, which has backed militant  Islamic groups opposed to the Arab-Israeli peace efforts, has denounced  the Wye agreement, branding Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader,  a traitor to the Palestinian cause.
The Palestinian cabinet promised  to crack down on the militants, who it said were jeopardizing the  recovery of Palestinian land and hopes for statehood by giving Israel  a pretext to postpone carrying out the Wye accord.
The Israeli Cabinet  suspended a meeting to ratify the agreement after the bombing, demanding  that the Palestinians conduct an ``all-out war on terror.''
Israeli  officials had no comment Saturday on the measures taken by the Palestinian  Authority on Friday.
The Wye agreement calls for an Israeli troop  withdrawal from 13 percent more of the West Bank in exchange for specific  Palestinian measures against violent militants.
A Palestinian security  official said several Islamic Holy War members were arrested in the  West Bank on Friday night.
Arrests were also reported in the Gaza  Strip.
Itaf Alayan, a supporter of the group who runs the Islamic  Purity Nursery in Bethlehem, said Palestinian officers had raided  the school and confiscated videotapes and educational cassettes before  locking it up.
The two bombers were identified as Youssef Zughayer,  21, from Anata, near Jerusalem, and his brother-in-law, Suleiman Tahayneh,  24, from Silat al-Harithiya, near the West Bank town of Jenin.
Both  had served time in Israeli jails and were known to be members of Islamic  Holy War.
``We never thought he would do something like this,'' said  Muhammad Zughayer, Youssef's father.
``We condemn such acts, but the  only thing we can do now is to say may he rest in peace.''
On a warm, sunny morning last Friday, at the time he usually left  for work at his family's produce store, Youssef Sughayer said goodbye  to his grandmother for the last time and rode off to his death.
Relatives  say that the 21-year-old Palestinian from this village near Jerusalem  showed no sign that he was heading for a suicide mission with his  brother-in-law as part of a secret cell of Islamic Holy War.
Their  car-bomb blew apart two hours later in a Jerusalem market, killing  both men and wounding 24 people.
``Don't grieve for me,'' he wrote  in a farewell note, according to relatives who found it later.
``If  you cry, cry with happiness that I'm a martyr.
Don't serve bitter  coffee, serve sweets.
I'm going to Paradise.''
At the family's stone  house outside Jerusalem on Sunday, visitors paying condolence calls  were served sweet juice, not coffee, as Sughayer's relatives tried  to make sense of what he had done.
The young man, once an ace student,  had come of age in Israeli prisons.
Jailed for a year at age 15 for  stoning Israeli cars during the riots of the Palestinian uprising,  he was imprisoned again at 17, that time for three-and-a-half years  for similar offenses and affiliation with Islamic Holy War.
Relatives  said he was an impressionable teen-ager, influenced by Islamic militants  with whom he was jailed.
Sughayer came out of prison more devout,  and hardened by mistreatment at the hands of the Israelis, relatives  said.
His cellmates taught him the doctrine of holy war and about  the glories of martyrdom, said an older brother, Samih Sughayer.
``They  sowed it in his heart,'' he said.
``He wanted to be a martyr in the  cause of God.''
But that reality, suddenly so clear Sunday, was not  so apparent when Sughayer was freed seven months ago.
``He seemed  normal,'' said his brother.
``He went to work at the grocery store,  he finished his high school classes and he wanted to enroll in the  university.
He was supposed to take a driving test in a few days.
If he was planning something, we didn't see it.''
He would stay up  late at night after work, studying the Koran and praying, but he showed  no outward signs of rage toward Israel.
``He would joke about things  and say that whatever happens is God's will,'' said a brother-in-law,  who insisted on anonymity.
``He was an easygoing guy.''
Last Thursday,  Sughayer bought a battered red Fiat and parked it near his house.
When someone at home asked about the car he said nothing, and family  members assumed it was one of the stolen vehicles often found here.
On Friday morning he left with the car, meeting his brother-in-law  and old jail buddy, Suleiman Tahayneh, who came from his village near  the West Bank town of Jenin.
Tahayneh had his own score to settle  with the Israelis.
His leg had been amputated after he was shot in  a confrontation with Israeli troops during the uprising, his relatives  said.
The Fiat was loaded with explosives, and the two men drove to  the market.
That evening, when concerned members of the Sughayer family  gathered to await news of their missing relative, a man arrived and  told them that he had sold his car to Youssef the previous day.
It  was a red Fiat, the same car they had seen near the house, and the  same type of car that news reports said had exploded in the marketplace.
At midnight, Israeli security forces raided the house and interrogated  family members.
The last, grim pieces of the puzzle fell into place.
``Up to the last minute on Thursday night we were talking together,''  said Sughayer's oldest brother, Ali, who worked with him past midnight  at the produce store.
``He asked me about someone who had moved his  hardware shop to another village, about how he was doing.
Earlier  we ate together, and we talked about giving charity to the poor.
He  wasn't nervous.''
``He had plans for the future,'' Ali continued.
``Maybe the people in his group convinced him to do this, and he could  not refuse.
We did not expect this from him.''
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad ruled adroitly for 17 years until September 1998 when he suddenly reversed his economic policy and fired his popular deputy and heir apparent, Anwar Ibrahim.
Anwar organized a political opposition leading Mahathir to arrest him.
Mahathir met street demonsrations with tear gas and water cannon, but his censorship did not reach Anwar's internet support.
News that police had beaten Anwar brutally brought protests from around the world, but the Malaysian trade minister discounted any unrest.
Anwar remained in custody as lawyers appealed.
Malaysia hardly provided a salubrious setting for the forthcoming economic summit.
Mahathir's 17-year rule saw great advances.
Now, Malaysia has economic crisis and instability.
Photos show bruised Anwar, who says police beat him.
Mahathir requests investigation.
Anwar supporters use internet to air views, photos, speeches.
EU is concerned about reports of his abuse and hopes for appropriate actions.
Habibie and Estrada may stay away from APEC talks over Anwar's arrest.
A witness against Anwar asks for appeal of his conviction.
Anwar says false confession was coerced.
Lawyers demand Anwar's release.
Ruling party leaders discuss Anwar's replacement; Mahathir not choosy.
Rafidah says arrest won't cause unrest or scare away investors.
Newspaper photos of the bruised face of Thailand's jailed former deputy minister, Anwar Ibrahim, has aroused international condemnation as well as local demonstrations.
Ibrahim, considered heir-apparent to Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed, was fired by Mahathir for being morally unfit for office.
Anwar mounted a nationwide campaign against Mahathir before his arrest.
Mahathir served as Prime Minister for 17 years with a bold socio-economic program that had veered into recession.
Anwar differed with Mahathir over economic policy and began speaking out against him.
Mahathir has not selected a successor and if he resigns or dies, a power struggle could ensue.
Malaysian PM Mahathir Mohamad fired Deputy PM Anwar Ibrahim, once groomed as a successor but now called unfit to lead and trying to topple him, after an economic disagreement.
Anwar and a friend were charged with illegal homosexual activity.
Anwar showed marks of a beating during 10 days in custody.
The EU condemned his abuse and regional leaders considered boycotting a Malaysian meeting.
Anwar's treatment sparked street riots and protests on the Internet.
Lawyers demanded his release.
The incident damaged Mahathir's 17-years of good leadership and isolated Malaysia from international markets, although the Malaysian trade minister played down its effect.
Bruises on the face of jailed dissident Anwar Ibrahim, splashed on  newspaper front pages for two days and downloaded from the Internet,  are blemishing the image of Malaysian police.
After first suggesting  that the former deputy prime minister had beaten himself on the face,  neck and arms during 10 days in police custody, Prime Minister Mahathir  Mohamad called for an investigation of the wounds Anwar displayed  in court Tuesday and Wednesday.
``We can't accept this and we will  undertake full investigations,'' Mahathir was quoted as saying in  Thursday's New Straits Times.
``The police cannot harm their detainees  in the course of their interrogation.''
Mahathir fired Anwar on Sept.
2 from his posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister, saying  he was morally unfit for office.
The two had differed over economic  policy as the country veered into recession and Anwar has said the  72-year-old Mahathir feared him as an alternative leader.
Local newspapers  that are normally pro-Mahathir have splashed close-up photos of Anwar's  badly bruised face for two days.
People are peering at the pictures,  downloading copies from the Internet, discussing whether Mahathir,  who also oversees the police as home affairs minister, knew what was  happening to the man he had once groomed as his successor.
It was  not the first time that a Malaysian has said he was tortured or mistreated  in police custody.
But there has been no one as high-profile as Anwar.
``What I experienced was chicken feed compared to Anwar,'' Syed Husin  Ali, head of the opposition Malaysian People's Party, said Thursday.
In a book about his six-month detention under the same law that kept  Anwar away from family and lawyers for 10 days, Syed described being  hit and deprived of sleep.
``At least I didn't have bruises on my  face, although I was slapped and hit on the stomach,'' Syed told The  Associated Press.
Anwar's bruises raise ``alarming questions about  the state of governance in the country,'' said Lim Kit Siang, leader  of the opposition Democratic Action Party.
If Mahathir did not know  of the alleged beatings, it suggests the police acted on their own.
At a series of rallies before his arrest, Anwar led throngs in chanting  for Mahathir's resignation and a more open, less corrupt government.
His arrest Sept. 20 was followed by street protests and hundreds of  additional arrests.
Before his arrest, Anwar designated his wife,  Azizah Ismail, as the leader of his new ``reform'' movement.
But police  have banned her from speaking publicly.
On Thursday she was summoned  for the third time to police headquarters for questioning about an  interview with regional television network CNBC Asia.
She had expressed  fears that her husband would be injected with the HIV virus to prove  allegations of homosexuality, and police are investigating possible  charges of sedition against her.
She called the repeated interviews  ``pressure and harassment.''
Three Malaysian police officers traveled  to Singapore Thursday to ask CNBC news anchors how they had arranged  to get the Sept. 21 interview with Azizah and one with Anwar on Sept.
3.
CNBC refused to answer questions about its news gathering, said  vice president of news programming Chris Blackman.
Anwar, who pleaded  innocent this week to five charges of sodomy and five of corruption,  told the court that police beat him the night he was arrested, ``until  blood seeped down my nose,'' leaving him half-conscious.
His allegations,  accompanied by pictorial evidence, brought prompt expressions of disapproval,  from the U.S. State Department, the Australian government, Amnesty  International, and the finance ministers of other countries who used  to meet with Anwar at international conferences.
On Thursday, the  Indonesian government, where security forces have been accused for  years of mistreating prisoners, said it regretted the reports about  Anwar's injuries and that the allegations have placed in doubt a visit  to Malaysia by President B.J. Habibie.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said Friday he is not too choosy about  who will be his successor.
The man need not necessarily be very religious  and only preoccupied with doing virtuous deeds at all times, the national  news agency, Bernama, quoted Mahathir as saying after Friday prayers  at the Al-Falah Mosque in the northern town of Jitra in Kedah state.
``It is sufficient that the person does things acceptable by the people,''  Mahathir said.
So far Mahathir, 72, has designated three heirs-apparent  during his 17-year rule.
One resigned.
Another challenged Mahathir  for leadership of the ruling party, and lost.
On Sept. 2, he fired  the last one, Anwar Ibrahim, calling him morally unfit for office.
Anwar mounted a nationwide campaign against the prime minister before  being detained as a national security risk and charged with illegal  homosexual acts and corruption in connection with those allegations.
Mahathir told reporters later that Anwar had been working toward toppling  him as prime minister and president of the governing coalition's dominant  party, the United Malays National Organization.
``He appeared very  good to me but he was actually planning ways of bringing me down.
At first, I did not believe when people told me about this, but I  now know this to be true,'' said Mahathir.
Mahathir said Anwar had  arranged for his supporters to contest for and gain control of the  UMNO divisions so that he could win the party's top post in next year's  party elections.
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The European Union on Friday expressed its  ``deep concern'' over reports of physical abuse of Malaysia's former  deputy-prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who was arrested last month.
``The EU urges the Malaysian authorities to ensure that similar incidents  will not occur again in the future and that Anwar Ibrahim be assured  correct treatment while in custody,'' a statement by the 15 EU countries  said.
The EU ``hopes that appropriate action will be taken against  any individuals, including officials, found responsible for such mistreatment,''  the statement added.
On Sept. 2, Malaysia's Prime Minister Mahathir  Mohamad fired Anwar, calling him morally unfit for office.
Mahathir  and Anwar had differed over economic policy and Anwar says Mahathir  feared him as an alternative leader.
Anwar mounted a nationwide campaign  against the prime minister before being detained as a national security  risk and charged with illegal homosexual acts and corruption in connection  with those allegations.
Earlier this week, Anwar appeared in court  with a black eye and bruises on his neck and arms.
He told the magistrate's  courts he was beaten by police on Sept. 20, the night of his arrest.
Faced with mounting public criticism, Mahathir called Thursday for  a probe by the attorney general of the alleged mistreatment of Anwar.
The EU statement welcomed the opening of this investigation.
It also  welcomed the release of seven youth leaders, including Ahmad Zahid  Hamidi, the head of the youth wing of the ruling United Malays National  Organization and a former ally of Anwar, who were arrested last week  in connection with demonstrations in favor of the ousted deputy-premier.
``The EU expresses hope that the other political demonstrators still  detained under the Internal Security Act will also be released soon,''  the statement said.
The former deputy-premier, who was also finance  minister, pleaded innocent this week to charges of sodomy and corruption.
A number of Anwar's associates are still detained.
Deprived of a voice in state-controlled newspapers and television,  supporters of Malaysia's jailed opposition leader have turned to the  Internet to air their views.
Although the government said police would  ``check every bit of information and leaflet'' posted on the Internet,  Malaysia's sole Internet provider acknowledged Friday the medium is  ``impossible to control.''
Jailed, beaten and facing trial on 10 sexual  misconduct and corruption charges, ousted Deputy Prime Minister Anwar  Ibrahim is a political underdog in Malaysia.
In the realm of cyberspace,  though, he's top dog.
Within hours of Anwar's recent speech accusing  Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of cruelty and insanity, dozens of  boot-legged recordings had been posted onto new websites hatched by  supporters.
Among the hottest images now making the Internet rounds  are several news-photo versions of Anwar's badly bruised eye, which  he claims was inflicted by police during his first night of detention.
Most pro-Anwar sites also contain his speeches, private letters to  Mahathir, clippings of foreign news reports and prose scorching the  72-year old prime minister.
Most of the Internet content about Anwar  is false or unverifiable, but the medium is tough to rein in, said  Azzman Shariffadeen, head of Mimos, the company that set up Malaysia's  Internet infrastructure.
``No website has been blocked or censored  by the government,'' he said.
Shortly after Anwar's arrest, one of  the former leader's aides bragged that they had set up dozens of sites  offshore, beyond the reach of the Malaysian government.
Malaysian  journalist M.G.G. Pillai, who runs a popular website on local politics,  isn't surprised by the aggressive march toward cyberspace.
``When  you're in the opposition and you have no access to resources and media,  then you end up making use of what's available to air your grouses,''  he said, noting that membership on his site has soared by 40 percent  since Anwar's ouster.
The cyber explosion is a boon to most middle-class  Malaysians, who are leery of local media.
``I've finally given up  reading local newspapers.
They're so skewed,'' said Michael Chan,  a lawyer who upgraded his computer with a high-speed modem the day  after Anwar was arrested on Sept. 20.
Chan uses the modem to download  pictures of balaclava-clad police in bulletproof jackets busting down  Anwar's front door before bundling him off to jail.
Occasionally,  he receives e-mail calling for organized rallies at the National Mosque  and nearby Independence Square, where hundreds of protesters have  been arrested by police.
The advertised demonstrations don't always  materialize.
Other e-mails call for ``silent protests.''
Malaysians  are being urged on the Internet now to switch off all lights for 10  minutes on Oct. 6 to declare their ``state of sorrow, sadness and  darkness'' over national injustice.
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie finds attending a summit of Asia-Pacific  leaders ``difficult'' because of his concerns about the arrest of  Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, a Thai newspaper reported  Sunday.
Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia  for an annual economics meeting.
Last week, Philippine President Joseph  Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic  Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest.
``I'm very concerned  over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted  as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation.
``I'm concerned  because people should not forget that Anwar Ibrahim had contributed  a lot for the benefit of his country.''
Anwar is a charismatic politician  who was once picked to be the successor to Malaysia's long-serving  Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
But he was suddenly fired by Mahathir  on Sept. 2 after the two differed on economic policy.
He then began  speaking out against Mahathir and was arrested Sept. 20.
Anwar has  been accused of engaging in homosexual acts illegal under Malaysia  law, but the charges are generally seen as a pretext for his political  persecution.
In a court appearance last week, Anwar's face was bruised  and he said he had been beaten by police, heightening international  and I  think it is universal _ people should be given the chance to defend  themselves,'' Habibie was quoted as saying in the interview conducted  Saturday.
``People should not be tortured.''
Habibie said Anwar's  dismissal should not have been based ``on things which had not been  proven.''
On attending the APEC meeting, he said, ``It's difficult  for me.''
But he said he would consult parliament, adding, ``I'm not  coming personally but as the president of 211 million people of Indonesia.''
Like Estrada, Habibie served as his country's vice president when  Anwar was deputy prime minister, making them counterparts on the international  affairs circuit.
A key witness in the government's sexual misconduct case against Malaysia's  former deputy prime minister remains determined to appeal his conviction,  his attorney said Monday.
Munawar Ahmad Aness, a friend and speech  writer of Anwar Ibrahim, pleaded guilty to the charges last month,  allegedly confessing to having sex with the political dissident.
Anwar  has said the guilty plea was coerced.
Aness, a Pakistani with permanent  residence in the United States, was sentenced to six months in jail.
In a move that could deal a major setback to the case against Anwar,  Aness then filed a letter of appeal through his lawyers.
Another letter  then appeared, saying Aness would not go through with the appeal.
His lawyers say the second letter was a fraud.
``His instructions  are he wants us to proceed with the appeal.
There is no change,''  said Balwant Singh, one of two lawyers defending Aness, after a meeting  with Aness.
One of the major charges against Anwar hinges on Aness'  confession.
Singh spoke to reporters after attending court proceedings  Monday where Anwar's trial was fixed for Nov. 2 on corruption charges.
He said he went to a hospital to meet Aness when the court broke for  lunch.
Aness was jailed on Sept. 15 but moved soon after to a hospital  where he has been under treatment for heart problems.
``He has given  us the written retainer.
He signed a notice of appeal.
We have instructions  to proceed and we are proceeding,'' said Singh, adding he filed the  letter of appeal in court Sept. 29.
Between the visits with his client,  however, Aness signed another letter saying he would not proceed with  the appeal, Singh said.
That led to confusion whether Aness really  wanted an appeal.
``Somebody approached him and asked him to sign  a typewritten letter,'' said Singh.
``He was asked to sign it and  he did.''
The leaders of Malaysia's ruling party met Tuesday to discuss a replacement  for ousted deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, who faces trial next  month in a case that will test the country's legal system.
Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad, 72, said last week he could ``drop dead'' at any  time.
But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's  job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision  was not expected quickly.
The party leaders, who have been conducting  a national campaign to explain to Malaysians why the popular Anwar  was fired Sept. 2, will also confer on what to do now that the High  Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence.
The ruling coalition had scheduled a giant rally in the capital Saturday,  aimed at drawing in the youth to whom Anwar's campaign of reform has  the most appeal.
Mahathir, who had heart bypass surgery in 1989, had  groomed Anwar, 51, as his successor.
But he fired his protege from  his posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister on grounds  he was morally unfit to lead.
The two had differed over economic policy  and Anwar has said Mahathir feared he was a threat to his 17-year  rule.
Anwar was also dumped from the ruling party, and after two weeks  of nationwide rallies at which he called for government reform and  Mahathir's resignation, he was arrested under a law that allows police  to hold him indefinitely, and prevent him from seeing his family and  lawyers.
On Tuesday, Mahathir denounced demonstrators who had flocked  by the thousands to the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur in recent  weeks, calling them part of a plot to topple the government.
Baton-wielding  riot police had dispersed the crowds with tear gas and water cannons,  arresting more than 100 people.
``They decided that the government  should be brought down through demonstrations, riots,'' the Bernama  news agency quoted Mahathir as saying in Sarawak state on Borneo Island.
He was expected to return to Kuala Lumpur later Tuesday to chair the  UMNO meeting.
After Anwar appeared in court with a black eye, bruised  face, neck and arms, his case drew international attention, particularly  from the presidents of the Philippines and Indonesia, who have raised  the possibility they might not attend an 18-nation summit in Malaysia  next month.
The United States would downgrade President Bill Clinton's  visit to Kuala Lumpur next month if Anwar continued to be mistreated,  the Wall Street Journal quoted an official in Washington as saying.
Clinton is scheduled to go to Malaysia for the meeting of the Asia-Pacific  Economic Cooperation forum.
Wearing a neck brace Monday after a court-ordered  hospital checkup, Anwar was ordered to stand trial Nov. 2 on four  charges of abusing his powers to interfere with a police investigation.
His trial is to halt on Nov. 14 and resume after the APEC meetings.
He has pleaded innocent to all charges, including another corruption  count and five charges of sodomy.
He faces 14 years in prison and  a fine on each corruption count and 20 years, plus whipping, on each  sexual charge, if convicted.
Anwar was arrested Sept. 20 under the  Internal Security Act, which allows jail without trial.
Under the  same law, police also arrested 17 people considered Anwar associates  and a risk to national security.
As of Tuesday, 12 had been released.
The UMNO supreme council was expected to prepare a list of top candidates  for Anwar's job for Mahathir's final decision.
The Star newspaper,  which is close to the government, listed the favorites as Foreign  Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and Education Minister Najib Tun Razak.
Other top contenders included Mahathir's confidant Daim Zainuddin,  a former finance minister brought back into the Cabinet in June as  ``special functions minister'' in charge of economic recovery.
Rafidah  Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh  Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running.
Lawyers for the prime minister's former deputy, now his most prominent  opponent, went to court Thursday to demand their client's release  from indefinite detention.
Azizah Ismail, the wife of jailed politician  Anwar Ibrahim, told reporters that the lawyers had filed a habeas  corpus appeal that says the dissident politician is being unjustly  held.
She said authorities have denied lawyers access to her husband,  and asked: ``How are they going to prepare for his defense?''
Anwar,  51, was arrested Sept. 20 under the Internal Security Act, which allows  indefinite detention without trial, after two weeks of rallies around  Malaysia at which he called for government reform and Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad's resignation.
Anwar was sacked on Sept. 2 from his  posts as deputy prime minister and finance minister, after he had  differed with Mahathir on policy for escaping economic recession.
But the prime minister said the deputy was fired because he was morally  unfit.
Anwar said Mahathir viewed him as a threat.
Anwar since has  been charged with corruption and illegal homosexual acts, and is to  go on trial Nov. 2.
He has pleaded innocent to all the charges, which  he says were trumped up by his political enemies.
``We claim that  his detention is illegal and we'll prove that in court,'' said one  of Anwar's lawyers, Pawancheek Marican.
He said the lawyers had asked  the High Court for an early hearing on the request for Anwar's release.
When Anwar appeared in court Monday, the judge had assured defense  attorneys that they would have access to their client so that they  could prepare their arguments for the trial.
Azizah said authorities  have spurned all her requests for family members to visit her husband  on grounds that Anwar's case was still under police investigation.
``I pleaded with the police to allow the children to see their father,''  she told reporters at the courthouse.
``I told them that I don't have  to see my husband.
But please let my son go and see him.
But the police  said no.''
Although Anwar remains in custody at the Bukit Aman federal  police headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, all but five of those arrested  under the ISA for participating in activities and rallies organized  by Anwar have been released.
Sidek Baba, deputy rector of the International  Islamic University, was released Wednesday after 16 days in jail.
``I may have been detained because I knew Anwar during my involvement  with the Malaysian Islamic Youth Movement,'' Sidek was quoted as saying  by The Star daily.
Despite the recent protests against him, Prime  Minister Mahathir said Wednesday that support for his ruling party  remains strong and there have been no defections from the party, which  claims a membership of 2.4 million in a nation of 22 million.
He ruled  out an early election to prove his popularity.
A general election  is not scheduled until 2000.
Support ``is solid,'' said Mahathir.
``There is no exodus from the party.''
This week, Mahathir declined  to name a replacement for Anwar, who had been Malaysia's deputy prime  minister since 1993.
The absence of a successor could lead to a power  struggle in the event Mahathir is forced to resign or dies, because  there is no clear line of succession.
Mahathir, 72, underwent heart  bypass surgery in 1989.
The arrest of former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim  won't lead to massive social unrest or frighten away investors, Malaysia's  trade minister said Thursday.
Anwar was fired by Prime Minister Mahathir  Mohamad on Sept. 2 after the two differed on economic policy.
He then  began speaking out against Mahathir and was arrested Sept. 20.
``Frankly  speaking there is no reason to say that just because one man was arrested  for something ... that it should bring any unrest,'' trade minister  Rafidah Aziz said.
``Leaders come and go.
... They even get sacked  in all countries of the world.
They even die,'' she told a news conference  in Manila, where she attended a meeting of Association of Southeast  Asian Nations economic ministers.
Rafidah said there have only been  a few demonstrations in Malaysia over Anwar's arrest, all of them  ``orchestrated.''
In recent visits to Chicago, New York, Houston and  Boston, she said potential investors asked her about Anwar's arrest  but were still interested in investing in Malaysia.
Anwar said police  beat him in custody.
In recent appearances in court, where he is facing  charges of corruption and illegal homosexual acts, he was seen with  a black eye and a neck brace.
At least two ASEAN leaders, Philippine  President Joseph Estrada and Indonesian President B.J. Habibie, have  spoken out against Anwar's treatment.
The Philippine leader said he  was considering skipping a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders in Malaysia  in November to protest the arrest of Anwar, whom he described as a  personal friend.
He later said he would attend the summit and had  only made the earlier remarks out of sympathy toward Anwar.
The Philippines,  Malaysia and Indonesia are founding member countries of ASEAN, which  also includes Brunei, Laos, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Among Asia's leaders, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad was notable  as a man with a bold vision: a physical and social transformation  that would push this nation into the forefront of world affairs.
It  almost came true.
In 17 years as prime minister, Mahathir, 72, who  is a medical doctor, fostered an economic liberalization that led  to some of the world's fastest rates of growth.
He drove Malaysians  to be more productive, to embrace high technology and to begin major  investments around the world.
He created a national affirmative-action  program that allowed the country's ethnic Chinese, Malays and Indians  to share in improved living standards and a new sense of Malaysian  identity and pride.
This year was to have been Mahathir's year of  triumph, perhaps paving the way for his retirement, with the inauguration  of huge public works projects and impressive gatherings of foreign  leaders and sportsmen.
But today, in a dizzying turnaround, Malaysia  is on Asia's critical list, its economy teetering on the edge of disaster  and its stability shaken by what seems to have been an entirely avoidable  political cat fight.
Last month, Mahathir dismissed and arrested his  deputy and heir apparent, Anwar Ibrahim, 51, accusing him of corruption  and illegal sex acts.
The move set off street demonstrations and aroused  international condemnation, particularly from Anwar's many friends  in foreign governments.
One of the region's most stable and prosperous  nations is suddenly in an uproar.
It appears that as in Indonesia,  Thailand, Japan and South Korea, the pressures of economic collapse  have spawned a political crisis.
In all those nations, the result  was a change in leadership.
The question now is: Is Mahathir next?
The answer is far from clear.
Unlike in Indonesia, there has been  little evidence of a simmering discontent in Malaysia.
The ouster  of former President Suharto in Indonesia had been predicted by many  people.
Almost no one seems to have foreseen the eruption here.
Malaysia  is not familiar with political demonstrations.
Unlike Indonesians,  Malaysians rarely riot.
Many people here were puzzled and disturbed  when they encountered water cannon and the riot police on the streets  in recent weeks.
``What we're seeing is unprecedented,'' said Ambassador  John Malott of the United States.
``This has never happened in Malaysia,  and nobody knows where it's going to go.
You can write a lot of scenarios  but we are in totally uncharted waters.''
Mahathir, the confident  nation-builder, seems to be flailing as he watches his legacy crumble.
An economy that had been growing at more than 8 percent a year for  the last decade is now headed for a contraction of perhaps 6 percent.
Angry and frustrated, he closed Malaysia off from international financial  markets one month ago, turning his back on the foreign investors whom  he once embraced and who had fueled the country's rapid growth.
The  move had the intended effect of bringing home the Malaysian currency,  insulating it from the speculators Mahathir blames for the crisis,  and giving an adrenaline jolt to the now self-contained economy.
It  is a move that seems in tune with a recent round of questioning of  the economic orthodoxy of the International Monetary Fund.
But few  foreign economists expect it to work for long.
``Mahathir is attacking  the fundamental beliefs of the free market, of capitalism, of Wall  Street,'' a foreign diplomat said.
``We are either watching economic  and I don't think it's being  rewritten.''
The day after making his economic gamble, Mahathir set  off the most severe political crisis of his tenure, dismissing Anwar,  the man he had been grooming to be his successor.
Two weeks later,  Anwar was arrested at his home and held incommunicado for 10 days,  during which he says he was beaten by his jailers.
Last week he was  charged with 10 counts of corruption and sexual misconduct that could  result in a prison term of up to 34 years.
The harshness of those  moves unleashed a surge of largely unsuspected discontent that mobilized  Anwar's motley fellow constituencies: liberal democrats, young professionals  and politically assertive Muslims.
For the first time in decades,  Malaysians by the thousands demonstrated in the streets and in mosques  and were met with tear gas and water cannon.
Many people were beaten  and hundreds were detained, although most were later released.
With  the emergence of this still-tentative opposition movement, the fear  expressed by one Western diplomat is of a ``downward spiral'' in which  ``suppression breeds more discontent breeds more suppression breeds  more discontent.''
People here whisper that Mahathir's days may now  be numbered.
But few venture a guess at what the number might be.
Given his control of the levers of power and the lack of focus or  leadership in the opposition, Mahathir could ride out the storm as  Anwar's trial proceeds.
But he has struck a harsh blow to the morale  of his own nation, to the sense of confidence he had worked so hard  to build under the slogan ``Malaysia Can!''
In this generally decorous  nation, the depth of anger expressed by two men who once called each  other father and son is disturbing to hear.
Anwar, says the prime  minister, is ``despicable'' and ``a sodomist.''
Mahathir, says his  former deputy, is ``senile'' and ``insane.''
Malaysians, who have  stolidly accepted Mahathir's authoritarian rule with a mixture of  gratitude and emerging pride, seem stunned.
On Oct. 4, 1998 Yugoslav President Milosevic ordered his forces in Kosovo back to their barracks.
While supressing the Albanian independence movement they had massacred hundreds of civilians and left 275,000+ refugees.
NATO threatened airstrikes unless hostilities ceased and peace talks began.
U.S. envoy Holbrooke insisted that Milosevic pull all forces out of Kosovo.
Milosevic called the NATO threat "a criminal act" and said Holbrooke aided Albanian terrorists.
Russia also urged an end to hostilities, but the Yugoslavs denied any fighting and vowed to defend their country if attacked.
Neither side budged as NATO seemed to wait for a U.N. decision.
Under threat of NATO attack, Milosevic orders back most army units.
US envoy says situation is as grave as it was 2 weeks ago, despite temporary abatement of fighting.
US and Russia increase pressure on Milosevic to end the humanitarian crisis in Kosovo or face NATO airstrikes.
US envoy tells Milosevic to pull back his military and let Albanian refugees return home.
Yugoslavia claims it is taking steps to comply with peace demands.
However, NATO says that UN Security Council conditions have not yet been met.
US envoy gives Milosevic last minute warning to halt ethnic crackdown in Kosovo.
Milosevic calls NATO threat criminal act favoring guerrillas.
Yugoslav President Slbodan Milosevic does not appear to be complying completely with UN demands to withdraw his troops and stop anti-Albanian activity in Kosovo.
U.S. special envoy Richard Holbrooke said the level of fighting may have abated but the situation is such that it could resume.
The U.S. and Russia have ratcheted up pressure on Milosevic warning him of inevitable NATO air strikes.
Yugoslavia claimed it "is faced with the imminent danger of war", will defend itself if attacked and called NATO's threats a "criminal act".
Yugoslav generals put the nation's air defense on high alert then pulled some armored equipment out of Kosovo as a compromise.
Yugoslavia failed to comply with a U.N. resolution demanding that the forces sent to Kosovo to suppress the ethnic Albanian separatist uprising be withdrawn and is now threatened with NATO airstrikes.
Though Milosevic moved some units from the Serbian province, U.S. special envoy Holbrooke called the situation serious.
Russia, previously against a NATO attack, said the strikes could occur if steps aren't taken to end the crisis.
Hundreds, mostly Albanian civilians, have been killed and thousands are refugees.
While the U.S. and other nations want peace, they oppose Kosovo independence, fearing it could destabilize other Albanian-populated Balkan states.
U.S. special envoy Richard Holbrooke said  Monday the military situation in Kosovo was as bad now as two weeks  ago.
Holbrooke said he will explain the ``extreme gravity of the situation''  when he meets Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic later Monday.
Speaking after a meeting with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana  and Supreme Allied Commander Europe Wesley K. Clark, Holbrooke said  ``while the level of fighting (in Kosovo) may have abated temporarily,  the capacity for its resumption is there.''
``The situation therefore  remains fully as serious today as it was a week or two ago,'' he told  reporters before flying to Belgrade.
He plans to meet with the Kosovan  Albanian leaders on Tuesday.
``We hope to make clear to president  Milosevic and the people of Yugoslavia the extreme gravity of the  situation,'' he said.
The United States and Russia are ratcheting up the pressure on President  Slobodan Milosevic, warning that NATO airstrikes are inevitable unless  he takes decisive action soon to end the humanitarian crisis in the  southern Serbian province.
Fearing airstrikes, Yugoslav generals put  the nation's air defense on high alert, but tried a belated compromise  by moving some tanks and other heavy equipment out of Kosovo.
A Western  diplomat said up to 120 Yugoslav army armored vehicles, including  tanks, have been pulled out.
In Brussels, Belgium, however, U.S. special  envoy Richard Holbrooke told reporters Monday that the situation in  Kosovo is as bad now as two weeks ago.
Holbrooke is en route to Belgrade  for a meeting with Milosevic.
``While the level of fighting (in Kosovo)  may have abated temporarily, the capacity for its resumption is there,''  Holbrooke said after a meeting with NATO Secretary General Javier  Solana and Supreme Allied Commander Europe Wesley K. Clark.
``The  situation therefore remains fully as serious today as it was a week  or two ago,'' he said.
``We hope to make clear to president Milosevic  and the people of Yugoslavia the extreme gravity of the situation.''
On Sunday, Milosevic met with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov  and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, Serbian President Milan Milutinovic  and Yugoslavia's top defense officials.
The Russians are against using  NATO force in Kosovo.
However, Ivanov and Sergeyev said the airstrikes  could occur ``if decisive measures are not immediately taken for a  radical improvement of the situation,'' Foreign Ministry spokesman  Vladimir Rakhmanin told the ITAR-Tass news agency.
To avoid such an  attack, Yugoslavia must end the hostilities, withdraw army and security  forces, take urgent measures to overcome the humanitarian crisis,  ensure that refugees can return home and take part in peace talks,  he said.
In Berlin, German Gen. Dieter Stoeckmann told German radio  that NATO action could come ``within days.''
NATO's decision may depend  on a report U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan is scheduled to present  to the Security Council Monday on whether Yugoslavia is meeting U.N.  demands.
Serb authorities appeared ready for compromise by installing  an interim government in the rebellious province in Serbia, the dominant  republic in Yugoslavia.
Serbian police and the Yugoslav army have  routed separatist Kosovo Albanian rebels in the crackdown that began  most of them  Albanian civilians _ and left more than 275,000 refugees.
A Yugoslav  statement said the nation's leaders wanted the Kosovo dispute solved  peacefully, ``but in case we are attacked, we shall defend our country  with all means.''
The government said Friday that the fighting had  ended and blamed continuing violence on ethnic Albanian rebels, who  are fighting for independence for the Serbian province.
Although the  United States and Europeans want an end to the fighting, they also  oppose independence for the majority Albanian province, fearing that  could destabilize other Balkan countries with Albanian populations.
In the Kosovo capital Pristina, the KLA offered to help NATO forces  if asked.
KLA spokesman Jakup Krasniqi said in a statement published  Monday by the Albanian language newspaper Bujku that ``we wish they  (airstrikes) would become reality'' and ``we shall provide assistance...  if it is asked of us.''
Krasniqi accused ethnic Albanian politicians  of having ``given up on independence'' and having become ``the servants  of the enemy,'' by agreeing to accept autonomy but not independence.
Serbs reported two attacks Sunday on civilian cars by Albanian ``terrorists''  25 miles (40 kilometers) south of Pristina, Kosovo's provincial capital.
Elsewhere, a policeman was killed after stepping on a mine, the Serb  Media Center said.
The Kosovo Information Center, allied with the  ethnic Albanians, reported heavy fighting between government forces  and the guerrillas 25 miles (40 kilometers) southwest of Pristina.
Ethnic Albanian political leaders have rejected the new interim government,  which was drawn up without their participation.
The council is composed  of seven Serbs, five ethnic Albanians and the rest Turks and Muslims.
Momentum for outside involvement has increased in the past week amid  revelations of massacres of ethnic Albanian civilians in the forests  of Kosovo.
London's Sunday Telegraph reported that Britain is preparing  troops and armored units for Kosovo, to be deployed in a post-airstrike  peacekeeping role.
The defense ministry refused to confirm or deny  the report but repeated that Britain was ready to participate in a  NATO attack.
French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine met Sunday night  with his British counterpart, Robin Cook, to discuss the situation  in Kosovo, France's Foreign Ministry said.
Vedrine and Secretary of  State Madeleine Albright had a lengthy telephone conversation as well,  the spokesman said.
On Sunday, Human Rights Watch said both Milosevic's  government and ethnic Albanian rebels have committed atrocities since  the conflict began, but the government abuses were on a much greater  scale.
The report by the New York-based human rights organization  says Milosevic has ``the primary responsibility for gross government  abuses.''
The United States and Russia are ratcheting up the pressure on President  Slobodan Milosevic, warning that NATO airstrikes are inevitable unless  he takes decisive action soon to end the humanitarian crisis in the  southern Serbian province.
Fearing airstrikes, Yugoslav generals put  the nation's air defense on high alert, but tried a belated compromise  by moving some tanks and other heavy equipment out of Kosovo.
A Western  diplomat said up to 120 Yugoslav army armored vehicles, including  tanks, have been pulled out.
In Brussels, Belgium, however, U.S. special  envoy Richard Holbrooke told reporters Monday that the situation in  Kosovo has not improved.
Holbrooke is en route to Belgrade for a meeting  with Milosevic.
``While the level of fighting (in Kosovo) may have  abated temporarily, the capacity for its resumption is there,'' Holbrooke  said after a meeting with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana and  Supreme Allied Commander Europe Wesley K. Clark.
``The situation therefore  remains fully as serious today as it was a week or two ago,'' he said.
``We hope to make clear to President Milosevic and the people of Yugoslavia  the extreme gravity of the situation.''
On Sunday, Milosevic met with  Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev,  Serbian President Milan Milutinovic and Yugoslavia's top defense officials.
The Russians are against using NATO force in Kosovo.
However, Ivanov  and Sergeyev said the airstrikes could occur ``if decisive measures  are not immediately taken for a radical improvement of the situation,''  Foreign Ministry spokesman Vladimir Rakhmanin told the ITAR-Tass news  agency.
To avoid such an attack, Yugoslavia must end the hostilities,  withdraw army and security forces, take urgent measures to overcome  the humanitarian crisis, ensure that refugees can return home and  take part in peace talks, he said.
In Berlin, 7th graf pvs
The United States and Russia are ratcheting up the pressure on Yugoslav  President Slobodan Milosevic, warning that NATO airstrikes are inevitable  unless he takes decisive action to end the crisis in Kosovo province.
Fearing airstrikes, Yugoslav generals put the nation's air defense  on high alert, but tried a belated compromise by moving some tanks  and other heavy equipment out of Kosovo.
A Western diplomat said up  to 120 Yugoslav army armored vehicles, including tanks, have been  pulled out.
However, U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke said Monday that  the Kosovo situation remains critical despite a lull in fighting and  the removal of some Yugoslav tanks and troops.
Holbrooke spoke in  Brussels, Belgium, en route to Belgrade to meet with Milosevic.
``We  hope to make clear to president Milosevic and the people of Yugoslavia  the extreme gravity of the situation,'' Holbrooke said after a meeting  with NATO leaders.
Holbrooke said he was told that NATO preparations  continued unabated.
``At NATO, the planning for military action is  serious, intense and sustained,'' he said.
Serbian police and the  Yugoslav army have routed separatist Kosovo Albanian rebels in the  crackdown that began in late February.
The conflict has killed hundreds  and left more than 275,000 refugees.
Kosovo is in southern Serbia, the main republic of Yugoslavia.
Milosevic  met Sunday with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister  Igor Sergeyev, Serbian President Milan Milutinovic and Yugoslavia's  top defense officials.
The Russians are against using NATO force in  Kosovo.
However, Ivanov and Sergeyev said the airstrikes could occur  ``if decisive measures are not immediately taken for a radical improvement  of the situation,'' Foreign Ministry spokesman Vladimir Rakhmanin  told the ITAR-Tass news agency.
To avoid such an attack, Yugoslavia  must end the hostilities, withdraw army and security forces, take  urgent measures to overcome the humanitarian crisis, ensure that refugees  can return home and take part in peace talks, he said.
In Berlin,  German Gen. Dieter Stoeckmann told German radio that NATO action could  come ``within days.''
NATO's decision may depend on a report U.N.  Secretary-General Kofi Annan is scheduled to present Monday to the  Security Council on whether Yugoslavia is meeting U.N. demands.
Serb  authorities appeared ready for compromise by installing an interim  government in the rebellious province in Serbia, the dominant republic  in Yugoslavia.
On Monday, Yugoslav Prime Minister Momir Bulatovic  said the government had accepted a Russian proposal for the Organization  for Security and Cooperation in Europe to investigate the crisis.
Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission until its membership  in the 54-nation organization is restored.
Bulatovic also claimed  there was no longer any fighting in the secessionist, majority Albanian  province.
He said five of the 10 special police units had been removed  from Kosovo and the others had been returned to barracks in the province.
A Yugoslav statement said the nation's leaders wanted the Kosovo dispute  solved peacefully, ``but in case we are attacked, we shall defend  our country with all means.''
One option could be for parliament to  declare a state of emergency _ a step which could lead to a general  mobilization of all military-aged men.
The head of Yugoslavia's other  republic, Montenegro, on Monday urged Milosevic to accept all international  demands and avert a NATO attack.
``We have to avert a clash with the  whole world, a confrontation which we are bound to lose,'' Montenegro's  pro-Western president, Milo Djukanovic, said in a statement.
With the threat of NATO attack mounting, Yugoslavia's prime minister  warned Monday the nation faces the ``immiment danger of war'' and  claimed the government was taking steps to comply with international  demands for peace in Kosovo.
In New York, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi  Annan said ``systematic terror'' had been inflicted on Kosovo civilians  within recent days and that Yugoslav forces were mostly responsible.
But Annan said he did not ``have the means necessary to provide an  independent assessment of compliance as required by the Security Council''  and suggested the 15 members may want to make their ``own judgement  in this respect.''
But U.S. special envoy Richard Holbrooke said the  situation in the southern Serbian province was as bad now as two weeks  ago.
Holbrooke spoke in Brussels, Belgium en route to Belgrade, where  he planned to drive home to Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic  ``the extreme gravity of the situation.''
Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's  prime minister told an emergency session of parliament Monday that  the country ``is faced with the imminent danger of war.''
Kosovo is  a province of Serbia, the main republic of Yugoslavia.
``The threats  are serious,'' Prime Minister Momir Bulatovic said.
``And I call on  this parliament to conclude that Yugoslavia is faced with the imminent  danger of war.
Yugoslavia has to defend itself if it was attacked.''
One option could be for parliament to declare a state of emergency  a step which could lead to a general mobilization of all military-aged  men.
In an attempt to head off NATO action, Bulatovic said the government  had accepted a Russian proposal for the Organization for Security  and Cooperation in Europe to investigate the crisis.
Yugoslavia had  repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership  in the 54-nation organization is restored.
Bulatovic also claimed  there was no longer any fighting in the rebellious, majority Albanian  province.
He said five of the 10 special police units had been removed  from Kosovo and the others had been returned to barracks in the province.
In Brussels, however, Holbrooke made clear that half-measures would  not be enough to satisfy Washington and prevent a NATO attack.
``While  the level of fighting may have abated temporarily, the capacity for  its resumption is there,'' Holbrooke said after a meeting with NATO  Secretary General Javier Solana and Supreme Allied Commander Europe  Wesley K. Clark.
``The situation, therefore, remains fully as serious  today as it was a week or two ago,'' he said.
``We hope to make clear  to president Milosevic and the people of Yugoslavia the extreme gravity  of the situation.''
Meanwhile, the head of Yugoslavia's other republic,  Montenegro, called on Milosevic to accept all international demands  and avert a NATO attack.
``We have to avert a clash with the whole  world, a confrontation which we are bound to lose,'' Montenegro's  pro-Western president, Milo Djukanovic, said in a statement.
Djukanovic,  a staunch Milosevic critic, called on the Yugoslav president to address  the nation ``with an unambiguous message'' that he has accepted all  U.N. resolutions and agreements he made with Russian President Boris  Yeltsin.
Djukanovic blamed Yugoslavia's problems on Milosevic's ``undemocratic  regime.''
Fearing airstrikes, Yugoslav generals put the nation's air  defense on high alert and moved some tanks and other heavy equipment  out of Kosovo.
A Western diplomat said up to 120 Yugoslav army armored  vehicles, including tanks, have been pulled out.
Belgrade had been  counting on Russia to block any U.N.-sanctioned military moves by  the Western Alliance.
On Sunday, Milosevic met with Russian Foreign  Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, Serbian President  Milan Milutinovic and Yugoslavia's top defense officials.
Although  the Russians are against using NATO force in Kosovo, Ivanov and Sergeyev  said the airstrikes could occur ``if decisive measures are not immediately  taken for a radical improvement of the situation,'' Foreign Ministry  spokesman Vladimir Rakhmanin told the ITAR-Tass news agency.
To avoid  such an attack, Yugoslavia must end the hostilities, withdraw army  and security forces, take urgent measures to overcome the humanitarian  crisis, ensure that refugees can return home and take part in peace  talks, he said.
In Berlin, German Gen. Dieter Stoeckmann told German  radio that NATO action could come ``within days.''
Serb authorities  appeared ready for compromise by installing an interim government  in the rebellious province in Serbia, the dominant republic in Yugoslavia.
Serbian police and the Yugoslav army have routed separatist Kosovo  Albanian rebels in the crackdown that began in late February.
The  conflict has killed hundreds _ most of them Albanian civilians _ and  left more than 275,000 refugees.
Ethnic Albanians compromise 90 percent  of the province's 2 million-strong population, and most favor independence  or substantial self-rule.
Momentum for outside involvement has increased  in the past week amid revelations of massacres of ethnic Albanian  civilians in the forests of Kosovo.
Although the United States and  Europeans want an end to the fighting, they also oppose independence  for Kosovo, fearing that could destabilize other Balkan countries  with Albanian populations.
In the Kosovo capital Pristina, the KLA  offered to help NATO forces if asked.
KLA spokesman Jakup Krasniqi  said in a statement published Monday by the Albanian language newspaper  Bujku that ``we wish they (airstrikes) would become reality'' and  ``we shall provide assistance... if it is asked of us.''
Krasniqi  accused ethnic Albanian politicians of having ``given up on independence''  and having become ``the servants of the enemy,'' by agreeing to accept  autonomy but not independence.
Ethnic Albanian political leaders have  rejected the new interim government, which was drawn up without their  participation.
The council is composed of seven Serbs, five ethnic  Albanians and the rest Turks and Muslims.
With the threat of NATO attack mounting, Yugoslavia's prime minister  warned Monday the nation faces the ``imminent danger of war'' and  claimed the government is taking steps to comply with international  demands for peace in Kosovo.
But NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana  told reporters that the Alliance believed Yugoslavia had not yet met  the conditions demanded by the U.N. Security Council.
``The reality  coming to us is that the compliance is not yet in place,'' Solana  said.
``As far as we are concerned, once again, I can tell you we  are ready.''
In New York, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said ``systematic  terror'' had been inflicted on Kosovo civilians within recent days  and that Yugoslav forces were mostly responsible.
But Annan said he  did not ``have the means necessary to provide an independent assessment  of compliance as required by the Security Council'' and suggested  the 15 members may want to make their ``own judgement in this respect.''
Following a meeting with Solana in Brussels, Belgium, U.S. special  envoy Richard Holbrooke said the situation in the southern Serbian  province was as bad now as two weeks ago.
Holbrooke said he would  tell Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic of ``the extreme gravity  of the situation.''
Sources speaking on condition of anonymity said  Holbrooke arrived in Belgrade late Monday afternoon and was expected  to meet Milosevic in the evening.
With NATO attacks said to be only days away, top U.S. envoy Richard  Holbrooke delivered an 11th-hour warning Monday to Yugoslavia's president  to halt his crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo or face airstrikes.
But there was no sign that Slobodan Milosevic was backing down.
Following  his meeting with Holbrooke, Milosevic's office issued a statement  denouncing NATO threats as a ``criminal act'' which favored separatist  ethnic Albanian guerrillas.
The statement, broadcast by government  television, said there had been no fighting in the Serbian province  for the past seven days and that the crisis represented no threat  to other countries in the southern Balkans.
Holbrooke, the U.S. ambassador-designate  to the United Nations, met with Milosevic for several hours late Monday  after arriving from Brussels, Belgium, where he conferred with senior  NATO officials.
There was no statement from Holbrooke after the meeting.
Before boarding a plane for Belgrade, however, Holbrooke said conditions  in the southern Serbian province had not improved since the alliance  started two weeks ago to finalize plans for air raids to force Milosevic  to halt his offensive against Kosovo Albanian separatists.
Holbrooke  said he planned to drive home to Milosevic ``the extreme gravity of  the situation.''
Holbrooke negotiated the peace deal with Milosevic  and other Balkan leaders that ended the 3 and one-half year Bosnian  war in 1995.
In Washington, President Clinton expressed concern that  Milosevic was ``playing the classic game of making false promises''  to avoid NATO military strikes.
Clinton, in a telephone call with  Russian President Boris Yeltsin, said Milosevic's compliance with  U.N. demands ``must be verifiable, tangible and irreversible,'' press  secretary Joe Lockhart said at the White House.
``What happens next  depends on President Milosevic,'' Lockhart quoted the president telling  the Russian leader, who has opposed the use of force against Moscow's  longtime ally.
As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through negotiations,  British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision on NATO military  action was imminent.
``We are getting ready for NATO action and later  this week we will expect a decision to be taken,'' Cook told reporters  after a special session of the Cabinet called by Prime Minister Tony  Blair.
In Brussels, NATO officials said they were ready to launch  airstrikes within hours of receiving an order to attack.
If that first  airstrike failed to deter Serb forces, a senior NATO official said  on condition of anonymity, the alliance could unleash a ``fully fledged  air campaign'' involving hundreds of planes.
At the United Nations,  Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Yugoslav forces had increased their  attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians even after a U.N. resolution  demanded a cease-fire.
In a widely anticipated report to the Security  Council, Annan listed apparent violations of a Sept. 23 U.N. resolution,  decried the ``appalling atrocities in Kosovo,'' and said it was ``clear  beyond any reasonable doubt'' that Yugoslav forces were responsible  for the bulk of them.
The U.N. chief also said rebel forces of the  Kosovo Liberation Army also were responsible for human rights violations,  a charge the KLA quickly denied.
NATO countries had been awaiting  the U.N. chief's report to determine whether to use military force  to stop the offensive on ethnic Albanians, who are seeking autonomy  like they had until 1989, if not independence, from Yugoslavia.
Albanians  in the province outnumber Serbs 9-to-1.
Despite Annan's unwillingness  to declare Serb noncompliance, State Department spokesman James Foley  said the Clinton administration believed Milosevic had not met the  conditions laid down by the Security Council.
Briefing reporters in  Washington, Foley cited the absence of a formal cease-fire, the failure  to arrange a meaningful dialogue with ethnic Albanian leaders and  the continued presence of ``major army units'' in southeastern Kosovo  near Albania's border.
Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's prime minister told  an emergency session of parliament Monday that the country ``is faced  with the imminent danger of war.''
Yugoslavia is comprised of dominant  Serbia and smaller Montenegro.
``The threats are serious,'' Prime  Minister Momir Bulatovic said.
``And I call on this parliament to  conclude that Yugoslavia is faced with the imminent danger of war.
Yugoslavia has to defend itself if it was attacked.''
One option was  a step toward a mobilization  of all military-aged men.
But the parliament voted to introduce the  measure ``when the first bomb drops on our territory.''
In an attempt  to head off NATO action, Bulatovic said the government had accepted  a Russian proposal for an investigation by the 54-nation Organization  for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Yugoslavia had repeatedly  rejected such a mission to Kosovo until Yugoslav membership in the  organization is restored.
The prime minister also said there was no  longer any fighting in Kosovo, which has 2 million residents.
He said  five of the 10 special police units had been removed from Kosovo and  the others had been returned to their barracks in the province.
One  diplomat in Kosovo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there  has been a significant redeployment of Yugoslav army troops out of  Kosovo to other parts of Serbia, including a mechanized brigade that  pulled out Sunday.
Some army units remain in the field, and there  is enormous fear that violence will resume, particularly among refugees,  tens of thousands of whom are living in the hills and forests without  shelter.
With NATO attacks said to be only days away, top U.S. envoy Richard  Holbrooke delivered a last-minute warning Monday to Yugoslavia's president  to halt his crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo or face airstrikes.
But Slobodan Milosevic showed no signs of backing down.
Following  his meeting with Holbrooke, Milosevic's office issued a statement  denouncing NATO threats as a ``criminal act'' that favored separatist  ethnic Albanian guerrillas.
The statement, broadcast by government  television, said there had been no fighting in the Serbian province  for the past seven days and that the crisis represented no threat  to other countries in the southern Balkans.
Holbrooke, the U.S. ambassador-designate  to the United Nations, met with Milosevic for several hours late Monday  after arriving from Brussels, Belgium, where he conferred with senior  NATO officials.
Holbrooke issued no statement after the meeting.
Before  boarding a plane for the Yugoslav capital, Belgrade, however, Holbrooke  said conditions in the southern Serbian province had not improved  since the alliance started two weeks ago to finalize plans for air  raids to force Milosevic to halt his offensive against Kosovo Albanian  separatists.
Holbrooke said he planned to drive home to Milosevic  ``the extreme gravity of the situation.''
Holbrooke negotiated the  peace deal with Milosevic and other Balkan leaders that ended the  3 1/2 year Bosnian war in 1995.
In Washington, U.S. President Bill  Clinton expressed concern that Milosevic was ``playing the classic  game of making false promises'' to avoid NATO military strikes.
Clinton,  in a telephone call with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, said Milosevic's  compliance with U.N. demands ``must be verifiable, tangible and irreversible,''  press secretary Joe Lockhart said at the White House.
``What happens  next depends on President Milosevic,'' Lockhart quoted the president  telling the Russian leader, who has opposed the use of force against  Moscow's longtime ally.
As Holbrooke tried to resolve the crisis through  negotiations, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said a decision  on NATO military action was imminent.
``We are getting ready for NATO  action and later this week we will expect a decision to be taken,''  Cook told reporters after a special session of the Cabinet called  by Prime Minister Tony Blair.
In Brussels, NATO officials said they  were ready to launch airstrikes within hours of receiving an order  to attack.
If that first airstrike failed to deter Serb forces, a  senior NATO official said on condition of anonymity, the alliance  could unleash a ``fully fledged air campaign'' involving hundreds  of planes.
At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said  Yugoslav forces had increased their attacks on Kosovo's ethnic Albanians  even after a U.N. resolution demanded a cease-fire.
In a widely anticipated  report to the Security Council, Annan listed apparent violations of  a Sept. 23 U.N. resolution, decried the ``appalling atrocities in  Kosovo,'' and said it was ``clear beyond any reasonable doubt'' that  Yugoslav forces were responsible for the bulk of them.
The U.N. chief  also said rebel forces of the Kosovo Liberation Army also were responsible  for human rights violations, a charge the KLA quickly denied.
NATO  countries had been awaiting the U.N. chief's report to determine whether  to use military force to stop the offensive on ethnic Albanians, who  are seeking autonomy like they had until 1989, if not independence,  from Yugoslavia.
Albanians in the province outnumber Serbs 9-to-1.
Despite Annan's unwillingness to declare Serb noncompliance, U.S.  State Department spokesman James Foley said the Clinton administration  believed Milosevic had not met the conditions laid down by the U.N.  Security Council.
Foley cited the absence of a formal cease-fire,  the failure to arrange a meaningful dialogue with ethnic Albanian  leaders and the continued presence of ``major army units'' in southeastern  Kosovo near Albania's border.
The European Union nations were divided  Monday on whether to launch air strikes without U.N. Security Council  backing.
The EU foreign ministers, meeting in Luxembourg, agreed to  tighten economic sanctions against Milosevic, but it was unlikely  that stricter travel curbs for Yugoslav officials and freezing more  Yugoslav assets abroad would be anything more than symbolic.
Meanwhile,  Yugoslavia's prime minister told an emergency session of parliament  Monday that the country ``is faced with the imminent danger of war.''
Yugoslavia is comprised of dominant Serbia and smaller Montenegro.
``The threats are serious,'' Prime Minister Momir Bulatovic said.
``And I call on this parliament to conclude that Yugoslavia is faced  with the imminent danger of war.
Yugoslavia has to defend itself if  it was attacked.''
One option was for parliament to declare a state  a step toward a mobilization of all military-aged men.
But the parliament voted to introduce the measure ``when the first  bomb drops on our territory.''
In an attempt to head off NATO action,  Bulatovic said the government had accepted a Russian proposal for  an investigation by the 54-nation Organization for Security and Cooperation  in Europe.
Yugoslavia had repeatedly rejected such a mission to Kosovo  until Yugoslav membership in the organization is restored.
The prime  minister also said there was no longer any fighting in Kosovo, which  has 2 million residents.
He said five of the 10 special police units  had been removed from Kosovo and the others had been returned to their  barracks in the province.
One diplomat in Kosovo, who spoke on condition  of anonymity, said there has been a significant redeployment of Yugoslav  army troops out of Kosovo to other parts of Serbia, including a mechanized  brigade that pulled out Sunday.
Some army units remain in the field,  and there is enormous fear that violence will resume, particularly  among refugees, tens of thousands of whom are living in the hills  and forests without shelter.
Under NATO threat to end his punishing offensive against ethnic Albanian  separatists in Kosovo, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia  has ordered most units of his army back to their barracks and may  well avoid an attack by the alliance, military observers and diplomats  say.
Milosevic, who on one hand is excoriated by Washington as the  scourge of Kosovo yet on the other hand is treated as key to peace  in Bosnia, acted as the European Union, NATO and the United Nations  prepared for a review on Monday of possible military intervention.
Russia stepped up its warnings against such action and dispatched  its foreign and defense ministers on an unusually high-level mission  to see the Yugoslav president Sunday in Belgrade.
As he has so often,  Milosevic appears to have bowed to foreign demands in the nick of  time and yet still accomplished what he wanted.
This weekend, foreign  diplomatic observers in Kosovo reported that a ``military stand-down''  had taken place in the province, where Milosevic's forces have waged  a fierce offensive against Albanian rebels.
The observers said that  except for segments of three brigades, most units of the Yugoslav  army were ``home.''
The daily reports of the observer mission, made  up of U.S., European Union and Russian military experts, are one of  the key elements in helping Washington and European capitals decide  whether Milosevic has met their demands for a cease-fire.
By putting  the army back in its barracks, sending some police units out of Kosovo  and ordering an end to burning and looting of villages, Milosevic  may well avoid a NATO attack, diplomats here and in Washington said.
But at the same time, they acknowledge that while NATO looked the  other way, he enjoyed a three-month license to overwhelm the Kosovo  the rebel army fighting for independence for Kosovo  and its ethnic Albanian majority _ and terrorize the rural civilian  population that supports it.
His military operation created more than  250,000 refugees, whom the Clinton administration is gearing up to  take care of this winter through a variety of relief organizations.
U.S. officials said they expected Richard Holbrooke, the U.S. envoy  who dealt with Milosevic in negotiating an end to the war in Bosnia,  to meet with him on Monday to discuss a political plan for Kosovo.
The heart of the disagreement in Kosovo is between Serbia, Yugoslavia's  principal republic, which insists on keeping Kosovo as a province,  and the ethnic Albanians there who have chafed under Milosevic's repression  since he stripped the province of virtual autonomy in 1989, and who  now seek independence.
The West, fearing the precedent that independence  for Kosovo would set in other conflicts in the world, has been trying  to mediate a middle course.
In essence, diplomats said they believed  that the plan Holbrooke will present to Milosevic calls for a three-year  interim period leading to a status fairly close to the pre-1989 autonomy  arrangement.
Since the Kosovo conflict flared up in March, critics  of Washington's policy toward Milosevic argue that he has been able  to choreograph every move to suit his goal: pushing the Albanian population  into submission with impunity.
``The United States and its allies  have waited four months while he cleaned the clock of the Kosovo Liberation  Army,'' said Morton Abramowitz, head of the International Crisis Group,  a policy analysis organization, ``and taken three weeks to discuss  military action, with the result that 500 Albanian villages were destroyed.''
Administration officials now acknowledge that when NATO failed to  live up to its earlier threat in June to strike Serbia, Milosevic  took advantage of the indecision and plunged ahead with an artillery  and tank offensive against the lightly armed guerrilla forces, whose  bedrock of popular support had helped win them effective control of  large swaths of Kosovo territory, including key roads.
While he was  doing that, Milosevic skillfully managed a key requirement for Washington:  he made sure that the war did not spill over into neighboring Albania  and Macedonia, fragile countries in a traditionally volatile area.
All along, the biggest fear in Washington has been that the Kosovo  conflict would engulf neighboring countries and encourage Albania  and the ethnic Albanian population in Macedonia to join the cause.
Such a possibility raised the specter of a new Balkans conflict just  three years after peace was secured in Bosnia.
Milosevic catered to  Washington's concern that the conflict be contained.
The Yugoslav  army mined Kosovo's borders with Macedonia and Albania, ensuring that  few refugees could escape and limiting routes for arms supplies for  the rebels.
The Yugoslav leader also understood that Washington was  unsure about how to deal with the disorganized Albanian political  leadership in Kosovo and the unbending Kosovo Liberation Army, whose  main chiefs were hardened emigres returned from Switzerland and Germany.
For example, Holbrooke persuaded Milosevic to meet in May with Ibrahim  Rugova, the top Albanian political leader in Kosovo, an encounter  that turned out to be little more than a photo opportunity.
For that  procedural breakthrough, Holbrooke recommended the lifting of a ban  on foreign investment in Serbia that had been put in place the month  before.
After meeting with Rugova, Milosevic stepped up his military  operations in Kosovo, forcing Washington to reverse itself again and  carry out the investment ban.
In late June, Holbrooke met with two  self-styled Kosovo guerrilla commanders in the province's western  town of Junik but then broke off all contact.
Clinton administration  officials said at the time that they were concerned that NATO intervention  would bolster the separatist forces.
To try to put the best face on  the situation, Washington worked with Moscow to get Milosevic to accept  the presence of international monitors who would patrol Kosovo and  report on military action.
The monitors were slow in getting organized.
By August, when the Yugoslav army, backed by the Serbian special police,  were in full swing against the rebels and burning and looting villages  in the process, the monitors found it difficult to gain access to  the fighting.
They drove up to roadblocks, knew something was going  on from the sounds and the smoke, but could not be precise.
In recent  days as the tanks and artillery have withdrawn, access has improved,  the monitors say.
But there are some areas in central Kosovo around  Likovac and Gornje Obrinje that the monitors have ruled off limits  because of land mines on the roads.
The mines are believed to have  been planted by the guerrillas.
Gornje Obrinje was the site of a massacre  of 18 ethnic Albanian women, children and elderly people on Sept.
26.
A British reporter who walked across fields into the village on  Sunday said about 10 mortar shells, apparently from the Serbian police  or the Yugoslav army, were fired at the village early Sunday afternoon.
The Yugoslav army and police forces have been responsible for the  vast majority of atrocities in the Kosovo conflict, said a report  by New York-based group Human Rights Watch, released here on Sunday.
The report said the rebels had also violated the laws of war by taking  civilian hostages and carrying out summary executions.
But the violations  by the guerrillas were on a ``lesser scale'' than the government abuses,  the author of the report, Fred Abrahams, concluded.
The report focused  on what it called a watershed in the conflict _ the attack by police  forces on three ethnic Albanian villages in late February and early  March in the Drenica region of central Kosovo.
At least 83 people,  including 24 women and children, were killed in the attack, which  involved helicopters, artillery and armored personnel carriers.
In  the Yugoslav capital, Belgrade, which is a four-hour drive north through  rolling countryside from Kosovo's capital of Pristina, Milosevic remains  politically secure.
That is in part, his domestic critics say, because  diplomats like Holbrooke and the head of the U.N.refugee agency, Sadako  Ogata, insist on going to see him, thus enhancing his stature.
The American envoy Richard Holbrooke met with President Slobodan Milosevic  of Yugoslavia Monday night and according to American diplomats told  him that he had to take further steps to pull back his military in  Kosovo Province or face a NATO attack.
Milosevic was also told, the  diplomats said, that he had to insure that the roughly 250,000 ethnic  Albanian refugees who have been forced to flee their homes in the  fighting in the last six months be allowed to return home.
Most of  these refugees are reluctant to return because many of the Serb police  officers who destroyed their homes and villages remain in the neighborhoods.
After delivering his sternest message so far to Milosevic over the  Kosovo conflict, Holbrooke said at a news conference that NATO's military  plans for attacking Serbia were moving ahead on a ``serious, intense  and sustained basis.''
Holbrooke's mission to Milosevic was described  by the American diplomats as ``not a do or die trip,'' but they added,  ``We're at a very serious juncture.''
Shortly after Holbrooke's meeting  with Milosevic, the Yugoslav leader issued a defiant statement on  Serbian television in which he said the ``threats of aggression''  outlined by Holbrooke represented ``a criminal act.''
Milosevic, who  rarely comments about his meetings with foreign diplomats and whose  tough words cast an unusually ominous tone, also said that Holbrooke's  position constituted ``support for Albanian terrorists and not the  Albanian people.''
Milosevic was apparently accusing Holbrooke of  supporting the ethnic Albanian guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation  Army, who have been fighting to make the Serbian province of Kosovo  an independent nation.
The Yugoslav leader added that ``for more than  seven days there have been no skirmishes or military action.''
An  American diplomat familiar with the themes Holbrooke planned to stress  to Milosevic said there had been no expectation that the American  envoy would walk out Monday night with an agreement.
Rather, the point  was to underscore to the Yugoslav leader and make explicit what was  expected of him.
``It was not quite an ultimatum,'' the diplomat said,  ``but more a matter of what steps have to be taken to show compliance.''
The essence of Holbrooke's demands centered on issues outlined in  a United Nations Security Council resolution of two weeks ago.
The  resolution ordered Milosevic to withdraw the extra army and police  forces that were sent to Kosovo to deal with the guerrillas and to  send back to their bases the military forces normally stationed in  the province.
So far, American diplomats said, Milosevic has withdrawn  troops from the field but not all of them are in their barracks.
Such  a move is essential, American diplomats said, to create a conducive  atmosphere for any possible negotiations on the future status of the  province.
The U.N. resolution also calls for a political solution.
Holbrooke and the U.S. ambassador to Macedonia, Christopher Hill,  discussed with Milosevic a political document drawn up by the State  Department that calls for broad autonomy for Kosovo.
Milosevic withdrew  the autonomy in 1989 as he began his campaign of Serb nationalism.
The countryside in central Kosovo has been eerily silent since last  Thursday.
The sound of artillery thuds and mortar rounds have been  noticeably absent and the coils of white smoke that signified burning  villages have vanished from the green hills and valleys.
Police checkpoints  are more relaxed and areas that were sealed off this time last week  by the Yugoslav army are now open to the patrols of diplomatic monitors  from the United States, European Union and Russia.
These monitors,  many of whom are former military officers, have reported that the  Yugoslav army has ``stood down'' and that they have seen virtually  no military action since late last week.
There has been sporadic shooting,  the monitors have reported.
But this superficial calm is not good  enough because the Serb military has the capacity to resume fighting  very quickly, a NATO military officer said Monday.
The officer added  that a cease-fire in Kosovo is ``pretty much enacted.''
He also said  that the ``trend toward compliance is positive.''
The interior ministry  police must also reduce their presence around villages so that refugees  who have fled have the confidence to return, the military officer  said.
Some interior ministry police officers had left the province,  but not enough, he added.
On the question of how badly damaged the  KLA had been by the Yugoslav army's three-month offensive, the NATO  officer said, ``It's a fair assessment that the KLA is dismantled  but not destroyed.''
Holbrooke's first stop Monday was Brussels, where  he met with the secretary-general of NATO, Javier Solana.
On Tuesday  he plans to travel to Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, where he is  scheduled to meet with the ethnic Albanian leader Ibrahim Rugova to  present the political proposal for the future status of Kosovo.
He  is expected back in Belgrade on Tuesday afternoon for another session  with Milosevic.
Famine had become the rule as North Korea entered its fourth winter of chronic food shortage in 1998.
In 1997 the nation produced only 2.8 million tons of grain of the 4.5 million required to feed its 23 million people.
Poor harvests, floods and droughts contributed to the problem exasperated by government restrictions on international aid.
Two million may have died from famine and the U.N. reported that 65% of the children under 7 showed stunted growth.
One report concluded that famine and a failed public health system had produced a generation of physically and mentally impaired children.
Similar conditions were said to be developing in Cambodia.
N. Korea will have another poor harvest this year, making this its 4th winter of famine.
Government has cut the number of people to get aid for security reasons.
The possibility of nuclear weapons in N. Korea threatens U.S. aid.
Millions have died of starvation.
Two thirds of children under age 7 are malnourished and their growth is stunted.
A generation will be physically and mentally impaired.
Hyundai's founder will give 501 cattle to his native N. Korea.
About 200 defected to S. Korea in the last 3 years.
China returned 100 to 150, denying them asylum.
Hunger in Cambodia is due to a bad economy.
N. Korea will send 317 to the Asian Games in Thailand.
North Korea has suffered 5 years of famine, caused by floods and the loss of Soviet trade.
The government distributed nutritionless substitutes and made food aid available to fewer people.
Two million may have starved.
Children are stunted.
Curable diseases become fatal.
A generation is impaired mentally and physically.
Some seek asylum in the South.
China sends refugees home.
N. Korea's hard line discourages donors.
Hyundai's founder donated cattle to the North but leaders claim he sabotaged them.
He hopes to promote tourism of the North.
N. Korea is sending many athletes to the Asian Games despite famine.
Cambodia's famine approaching N. Korea's level.
The fourth year of devastating famine is striking North Korea, making it the worst in East Asia, and behind only India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, with Cambodia catching up.
North Korea is getting massive international aid, but investigators fear the young generation will be lost to severe malnutrition.
The public health system is disseminated.
The old, rural, and nonpolitical are hardest hit.
The rigid political system continues to limit access and aid to 30% of the country, repel attempts to help, such as from South Korean businessmen and Doctors without Borders, and waste money on propaganda.
More are fleeing to China, seeking food not political freedom.
Famine-threatened North Korea's harvest will be no better this year  than last and could be worse, a senior U.N. aid official said Saturday.
North Korea needs a minimum 4.5 million to 5 million tons of grain  to feed its 23 million people, but managed last year to harvest just  2.8 million tons, Namanga Ngongi, deputy head of the World Food Program  said.
Although hard figures are not yet available, the prospects for  this year are that ``the harvest will not be any better,'' Ngongi  told reporters in Beijing after visiting North Korea.
``It may be  worse than last year.''
Poor harvests, economic collapse and three  years of floods and drought, have produced chronic food shortages  in North Korea and left it heavily reliant on foreign aid.
Fertilizer  is lacking, as is fuel to power tractors and farm machinery, meaning  most planting and harvesting must be done by hand.
``Every year it  gets worse,'' Ngongi said.
But despite the need for food aid, Ngongi  said the government about a month ago cut the number of counties to  which the WFP has access from 171 to 145, reducing the number of people  who can get aid from 6.7 million to 5.8 million.
Most of those receiving  WFP aid are children aged between 6 months and 6 years.
Ngongi said  notably the lack of a peace  treaty with its rival South Korea _ for its decision.
The government  said the ban would be temporary, Ngongi added.
Ngongi, who spent four  days inspecting WFP relief efforts in North Korea, said people generally  looked better than during a visit last year.
But he also said he could  see that ``a large part of the population is very weak.''
``Everybody  has been consuming at a very low level.
So they may not be severely  malnourished, but they are not well nourished at all,'' he said.
U.S.  officials who toured some of the hardest-hit regions of North Korea  this summer said 2 million people may have died because of famine.
Ngongi said he saw malnourished children who were said to be 10 or  11 years old, but appeared to be only 4 or 5 years old.
About 30 percent  of children in one primary school he visited were not in class.
``A  lot of the children were too weak to come to school,'' he said.
But  Ngongi said foreign food aid has saved lives.
``A lot of people are  alive today thanks to the international community's support,'' he  said.
The founder of South Korea's largest conglomerate plans to visit his  native North Korea again next week with a gift of 501 cattle, company  officials said Thursday.
The visit has been delayed a month because  of a dispute over 500 cattle donated by Chung Ju-yung, founder of  the Hyundai group, during a trip to the North in June.
North Korea  claimed 71 of those cattle died because Seoul government agents force-fed  them indigestible vinyl strips and lumps of rope before shipping them  to the North.
Calling the North's claim nonsense, Seoul's Ministry  of National Unification ordered Hyundai to check thousands of other  cattle being raised at its ranch on the west coast.
The ministry later  acknowledged that lumps of rope were found in the stomachs of some  cattle on the ranch, but said the material didn't kill the animals  donated to North Korea.
It blamed the deaths on stress caused by the  long shipment by truck to the North.
The South Korean government said  it would not authorize a second shipment of cattle unless the North  retracted its accusations.
On Thursday, South Korean Unification Minister  Kang In-duk said North Korea sent a letter to Hyundai last week, saying  that ``the misunderstanding with the southern authorities on the issue  of the dead cattle is cleared.''
Kang said the North's letter ``cleared  a stumbling block for Hyundai's additional cattle donation.''
During  his visit, Chung is expected to reach agreement on details of Hyundai's  plan to start sightseeing tours of a scenic mountain in the North.
The tours, originally scheduled to begin in September, have been delayed  because of cost, security and other matters.
Hyundai hopes to send  by ship up to 2,000 tourists a week for four-day tours of Diamond  Mountain on the North's east coast beginning in November.
Animosity  and distrust between the two Koreas run deep.
The Korean states were  separated into the communist North and the capitalist South in 1945.
They fought a three-year war in the early 1950s.
A North Korean man arrived in Seoul Wednesday and sought asylum after  escaping his hunger-stricken homeland, government officials said.
Kim Myong Sup, 23, had been living in hiding in a ``third country''  since fleeing North Korea last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs  and Trade said.
The ministry generally uses the term ``third country''  to avoid naming China, which is required by treaty with North Korea  to return defectors to their homeland.
The ministry described Kim  as a former athlete, but said details of his background and his method  of escape from North Korea were not available.
About 200 North Koreans  have defected to South Korea in the past three years, including 60  so far this year.
All complained about severe food and fuel shortages  in their country.
The Koreas were divided into the communist North  and the capitalist South in 1945.
They fought the Korean War in 1950-53  and never signed a formal peace treaty.
North Korea is entering its fourth winter of chronic food shortages  with its people malnourished and at risk of dying from normally curable  illnesses, senior Red Cross officials said Tuesday.
The officials  warned against international complacency and hostility toward North  Korea as the food crisis stretches on and the isolated communist country  shows little willingness to adopt far-reaching changes to revive its  ruined economy.
``Humanitarian suffering cannot be routine in any  part of the world,'' said Margareta Wahlstrom, the Red Cross' undersecretary  of disaster relief, who returned to Beijing Tuesday after a week inspecting  the aid agency's operations in North Korea.
She and other Red Cross  officials saw further ravages of North Korea's slow-motion famine:  electricity supplied to only half the capital, Pyongyang, at a time;  the elderly looking swollen, a sign of long-term hunger; a generation  of children stunted, with 10-year-olds looking like 6-year-olds and  5-year-olds like 2-year-olds.
Everywhere, from bakeries to government  ministries, people were being served noodles and cakes made from soybeans  mixed with acorns, grass and herbs, Red Cross president Astrid Heiberg  said.
Heiberg likened the additives to ``cattle food'' and noted that  doctors reported a rise in stomach illnesses from the mixtures.
``This  is really part of the daily life,'' she said.
``You would not give  them to your children or your elderly mother knowing she would get  cramps in her stomach and diarrhea unless her stomach was moaning.''
Three years of floods and drought that started in 1995 devastated  North Korea's collective farming and planned economy, already teetering  from the loss of its Soviet bloc trading partners.
With few goods  or money to barter or buy foreign supplies, the country lacks sufficient  fertilizer for crops, and fuel and parts for machinery.
The Red Cross  inspectors saw soldiers and people harvesting cabbage, the winter's  main vegetable.
The grain harvest is finished and by U.N. estimates  little improved over last year's: about 3 million tons, only enough  to meet two-thirds of the needs of North Korea's 22 million people.
As the long, harsh winter begins, doctors confirm and official statistics  show widespread malnutrition, tuberculosis on the rise and hunger-weakened  patients unable to recover from operations and sickness, Heiberg said.
Doctors worry that the respiratory illnesses so common in the winter  may ``take a toll'' on the weakened population, she said.
One 10-bed  hospital in the countryside was keeping only three patients at a time  because it did not have food to care for more, said Heiberg.
The Red  Cross wants to focus its latest dlrs 9 million appeal on getting essential  medicines and blankets and warm clothes to North Korea.
Food aid is  largely being turned over to U.N. agencies.
Years of food shortages have stunted the growth of millions of North  Korean children, with two-thirds of children under age seven suffering  malnourishment, U.N. experts said Wednesday.
Several years of flooding  and droughts coupled with an economic downturn have heavily damaged  North Korea's crop production and capacity to import food in the closed,  communist nation.
A survey carried out in September and October also  showed that 16 percent of children in North Korea are acutely malnourished,  with a body weight too low for their height.
That figure, which reflects  ongoing shortages, is exceeded in Asia only by Bangladesh, India and  Sri Lanka.
Eighteen teams, each headed by a foreign official from  the World Food Program, the U.N. Children's Fund or the European Union,  carried out the study.
They measured the weight and height of 1,800  North Korean children from infants up to age seven in homes randomly  selected in areas where aid agencies have access.
Those areas cover  around 70 percent of the population.
It was the first ``technically  sound survey'' of the problem, UNICEF official Kirsi Madi told reporters.
The most alarming findings were for toddlers aged one to two, 30 percent  of whom were acutely malnourished.
At that age, ``malnutrition can  permanently impair physical and intellectual growth,'' said Judy Cheng-Hopkins,  WFP director for the region.
Children in North Korea's three largest  were better off than their  counterparts elsewhere, with 11 percent acutely malnourished.
Boys  were almost twice as badly affected as girls.
Despite catastrophic hunger at home, North Korea plans to send 317  athletes and officials to next month's Asian Games in Thailand, South  Korean officials said Thursday.
It will be the largest sports delegation  the communist country has sent abroad in recent years.
North Korean  Sports Minister Chang Ung said 209 athletes from his country will  compete in 21 events in Bangkok, hoping to win medals in women's judo,  women's soccer, wrestling, table tennis, weightlifting and boxing.
Chang made the remarks in an interview published recently by the Chosun  Shinbo, a newspaper run by pro-North Korean residents in Japan, said  Seoul's Naewoe Press, which obtained the report.
Chang said North  Korea was sending a large delegation to Bangkok to prepare for the  2000 Sydney Olympics.
North Korea did not enter the last Asian Games,  in Hiroshima, Japan, in 1994.
It sent only 18 athletes and officials  to the Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, in February.
Naewoe is run  by South Korea's main government intelligence agency and specializes  in monitoring communist news media.
Three years of floods and drought  that started in 1995 devastated North Korea's collective farming and  planned economy, forcing the country to rely on outside aid to feed  its 23 million people.
Hunger and malnutrition in Cambodia are reaching crisis levels comparable  to the effects of famine in North Korea, a U.N. World Food Program  representative said Tuesday.
Though North Korea is suffering from  a simple lack of food, a faltering economy in Cambodia combined with  weak health care and education is causing similar levels of malnutrition  in children, said Ken Davies, the WFP's country director.
``There  is enough rice.
The problem is that people are too poor to access  it.
The problem is poverty,'' Davies said.
The WFP is currently supporting  about 15 percent of the population  _ with food-for-work and direct assistance programs, but Davies said  he fears there are still plenty more that are not getting enough to  eat every day.
``The problem is so bad that it is only a little worse  in North Korea,'' Davies said.
``The situation is much worse than  most people recognize.''
According to a recent WFP survey, 49 percent  of Cambodian children under age 5 are stunted by lack of food and  20 percent suffer from acute malnutrition.
By comparison, a similar  survey of North Korean children under 7 found that 65 percent are  stunted and 16 percent suffer from acute malnutrition.
Cambodia has  produced a rice surplus for export in the last two years and expects  another this year, but WFP statistics show that 25 percent of rice-growing  areas account for 75 percent of the surplus.
The majority of Cambodian  farmers are not producing enough to keep their families fed and are  being increasingly saddled with debts incurred when they run out of  reserves before harvest, Davies said.
Money-lenders in rural Cambodia  typically charge 100 percent interest, which must be paid in rice  at harvest time, giving many farmers a handicapped start on the next  crop season.
Poor sanitation, lack of health care and ignorance of  modern child rearing _ problems left mostly unaddressed by under-funded  health and education sectors in Cambodia _ have exacerbated the food  security problem, Davies said.
Davies urged the new government to  substantially increase annual expenditures on health, education and  rural development as a first step in a long-term solution to Cambodia's  food crisis.
``The poverty is getting worse right now and the situation  with the malnutrition of children is a crisis,'' Davies said.
Cambodia  typically earmarks about half of its annual budget to defense and  security.
In the 1998 budget, education was allocated 6.5 percent,  health 4.4 percent and rural development 0.2 percent.
Actual disbursements  to the three ministries are often only 60 to 70 percent of the budgeted  amount as annual revenues fall short of expectations, according to  aid workers.
A 1999 budget draft proposed a reduction of the health  ministry's allotment, which caused an outcry in September from health  officials and the U.N. World Health Program.
The draft was later readjusted  to provide an unprecedented 33 percent increase in health spending.
Police in northeastern China's Jilin province said Monday they had  rounded up at least 100 North Koreans and sent them back to endure  a famine in their reclusive country.
A police official in the Jilin  city of Tonghua, near the North Korean border, said the North Koreans  were forced to repatriate because some had resettled illegally in  China, had formed criminal gangs or engaged in prostitution.
The official,  who spoke on condition of anonymity, denied reports in the South Korean  press that the Chinese had disregarded requests for political asylum  in forcing the refugees back across the border.
He said they had crossed  into China seeking food, not because of political repression in North  Korea.
Citing a North Korean human rights group and Japanese tourists  visiting the region, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported Monday  that 150 North Koreans had been sent home from China, despite having  presented petitions for political asylum.
North Korea is entering  its fourth winter of chronic food shortages, having harvested only  3 million tons of grain this year, about two-thirds of the minimum  needed by its 23 million people.
A congressman who visited remote parts of North Korea last week said  Saturday that the food and health situation there was desperate and  deteriorating, and that millions of North Koreans might have starved  to death in the last few years.
The congressman, Tony Hall, D-Ohio,  who has had a longtime interest in world hunger, passed through Tokyo  on his return to the United States and showed photographs he had taken  of North Korean children with patchy hair, protruding bones, open  sores and other signs of severe malnutrition.
Hall also brought back  a bag of what officials called ``substitute food'' being distributed  by a government food station: dried leaves and straw, so coarse that  even cattle would normally turn away.
``They grind it into powder  and make it into noodles,'' Hall said.
The noodles have no nutrition  and are indigestible, leaving people holding their aching stomachs,  he said.
North Korea has admitted that it is facing serious economic  difficulties, but there have been sharply diverging assessments of  how serious these are.
Some visitors with the United Nations and other  organizations have said that the food situation seems to be a bit  better now than a year or two ago.
Hall said that the divergence might  have arisen because in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, life did  seem to be slightly better than during his three previous trips to  North Korea.
But in rural areas where foreigners are not often allowed  to visit, he added, the overall situation is worse than ever.
Based  on visits to four hospitals, Hall also emphasized that public health  care had declined sharply.
In one hospital, assistants were holding  down a patient while surgeons conducted a stomach operation without  electric lights or anesthesia.
Ordinary North Koreans are suffering,  in part, because their government's hard-line policies have alienated  would-be donors and aid agencies.
The United Nations has repeatedly  appealed for relief aid for North Korea, but the latest appeal has  raised less than one-third of the target.
In September, Doctors Without  Borders announced that it was pulling its staff of 13 from North Korea  because it feared that its aid was going to the politically connected  rather than to the most needy.
North Korea does not release mortality  figures or health statistics, but Hall said that the United Nations  had gathered and would soon release data indicating that 30 percent  of North Korean children under age 2 are acutely malnourished and  that 67 percent of all children are physically stunted.
Hall said  he thought that overall at least 1 million people had died and that  the total was probably closer to 3 million.
In an indication of the  seriousness with which professional demographers view the situation,  the U.S. Bureau of the Census recently published estimates suggesting  that North Korea's population peaked in 1995 at 21.55 million and  has since fallen to 21.23 million this year.
That would be a decline  of 320,000 over three years, a period when North Korea's population  would have been expected to grow by about 925,000 people, based on  the population growth rate of the early 1990s.
Nicholas Eberstadt,  an American specialist on North Korean population figures, says that  there simply is not enough hard information for him to estimate the  death toll from the famine.
But he notes one political tidbit: North  Korea's constitution stipulates that there should be one delegate  to the country's ``people's assembly'' for every 30,000 citizens.
This year's assembly did not expand as previous ones did, but rather  had just 687 delegates, the same as the previous assembly held in  1990.
While Eberstadt counsels caution, that could mean that North  Korea's population, after eight years in which it had been expected  to add several million people, is now back to 20.6 million people  or fewer.
The United States has been supplying grain to North Korea,  but strains are growing over a secret underground complex in the North  that some experts worry may be the heart of a new nuclear weapons  program.
The United States warned last week that the ``agreed framework''  that is the basis for its relations with North Korea will be in jeopardy  unless the North lets American experts visit the underground complex  and resolve their doubts.
North Korea has said that it will show off  the complex only if Washington promises that if the complex is not  a nuclear one, it will pay for ``vilifying us and impairing our prestige.''
Washington refuses to pay, and North Korea is warning that the standoff  could lead the agreement to fall apart.
``Their shameless and wicked  demand is an open infringement upon our sovereignty and wanton interference  in our internal affairs,'' declared North Korea's leading newspaper,  Rodong Sinmun.
More than five years of severe food shortages and a near-total breakdown  in the public health system have led to devastating malnutrition in  North Korea and probably left an entire generation of children physically  and mentally impaired, a new study by international aid groups has  found.
The study, the first scientific nutritional survey in North  Korea, confirms the disturbing reports by international aid workers,  who over the past year have gained increasing access to the population  of this highly isolated and secretive country.
Among other shocking  findings, researchers from the World Food Program, Unicef and the  European Union found that, because of long-term food shortages, a  staggering 62 percent of children under 7 years old suffer from stunted  growth.
They have discovered that, despite a huge international food  aid program over the past three years, severe malnutrition is widespread  among toddlers at crucial stages of brain development, suggesting  that this generation's physical and mental abilities will not develop  normally and that the losses can never be recovered.
Separately, international  medical workers from groups like the Red Cross, have begun to document  how the effects of food shortages are being severely compounded by  a breakdown in public health services.
Even basic water purification  systems stand idle for lack of essential ingredients like chlorine,  Red Cross workers say, leaving vast numbers of people with such severe  diarrhea that they are unable to absorb completely what little food  they have.
As the North Korean dictatorship has slowly, often grudgingly,  granted increased access to international aid groups in the last six  months, an increasingly clear and saddening picture of the hunger  haas emerged as a result of the large formal study and informal surveys  and observations by foreign aid agencies.
Past assessments of the  magnitude of the disaster in the country of 23 million are considered  flawed because they were based on interviews with a small number of  North Korean refugees who had fled into China.
And while the researchers  and aid workers on the ground in North Korea have not seen evidence  descriptions  that have surfaced in the more lurid refugee reports _ what they did  find was in many ways equally disturbing: A population withering after  nearly a decade of chronic hunger, people so weakened by malnutrition  that colds and stomach flus quickly turn lethal, the future of a generation  irretrievably lost.
``Now at last we have hard facts _ the situation  is very grave,'' said Judith Cheng-Hopkins, regional director for  Asia of the World Food Program, which has taken part in the research.
``To me this is a famine in slow motion.
People cope year after year,  and probably a lot drop off.
But the totality is very hard to gauge.''
For three weeks this fall, crews led by foreign scientists were finally  permitted to fan out across North Korea to conduct the first random  sample nutritional survey of children, providing by far the most solid  data on the crisis.
They found that 62 percent of children under 7  had stunted growth, a symptom of long-term malnutrition.
Thirty percent  of 1-year-olds suffered from moderate to severe malnutrition.
This  means a high likelihood of impaired mental and physical development,  because the nervous system matures dramatically during this essential  first year.
The researchers said that available scientific data suggest  that 10 years ago, malnutrition was rare in North Korea.
``Even if  the situation improves, it is unlikely to improve to the degree that  the country will fully recover from what we saw,'' said Judit Katona-Apte,  a senior program adviser for the World Food Program.
``People will  be small and not as well developed as otherwise and somewhat limited  in their mental capacities.''
Likewise, when Red Cross representatives  this year tested the water supply at the 840 hospitals and clinics  where they operate, they found that not one had water that was suitable  for human consumption, said Sten Swedlund, head of the Red Cross delegation  in North Korea.
``But of course they drink it _ they have no choice,''  he said during a recent trip to Beijing.
``There is a very close relationship  between the problems caused by the lack of food and a health sector  that's in very bad shape.''
Virtually all the children under 7 who  are malnourished also have diarrhea, he said.
None of the aid groups  has been able to study the issue of hunger-related deaths, and the  North Koreans have not released relevant figures, although most experts  agree that probably more than one million and perhaps as many as three  million have died prematurely since the food shortages began.
But  public health experts say the number who have perished might be difficult  to tally in any case, because most deaths were probably not from quick  starvation, but from immune systems weakened by years of hunger, so  that common colds more easily give way to lethal pneumonia and an  ordinary bout of infectious diarrhea proves fatal.
Still, there are  some disturbing clues: In one limited study conducted by the World  Food Program and other groups last year on 4,000 children hand-picked  by the government, 10 percent had a parent who was dead.
In this fall's  independent nutritional survey, 18 teams of experts sent to eight  of North Korea's nine provinces looked at 1,800 rural and urban children  under seven.
In addition to finding that 62 percent of children had  stunted growth, the teams found that about 16 percent of children  were suffering from acute malnutrition and were underweight for their  height, a sign that they were severely underfed at the time of the  study.
That figure is higher than in any country in East Asia and  puts North Korea among the world's worst 10 countries in terms of  malnutrition.
While that 16 percent figure is not quite as bad as  that of India and Bangladesh, the worst in the world with an 18 percent  malnutrition rate, experts say that North Korea's number in some ways  understates the problem.
In India and Bangladesh, pockets of severe  poverty alternate with pockets of relative plenty, while in North  Korea the whole country is to some degree underfed.
``Even in war-torn  countries, famine is more in pockets,'' Dr. Katona-Apte said.
``It's  hard to think of another country that's been affected in this way.''
The survey results are especially sobering since the researchers studied  only children under 7, the group that received nearly all the food  donated from abroad.
After three years of food donations, many foreign  aid workers in the country have remarked that children in nurseries  and kindergartens are looking better _ but that their older siblings  are failing.
So a month ago, the World Food Program began providing  elementary schools with high nutrition biscuits for children aged  7 to 12.
``We have reason to believe that many people are suffering  and that the elderly are a neglected age group that is just getting  weaker and weaker,'' Swedlund said.
There are now more than 100 Westerners  living in Pyongyang, the capital city, and many say the long-term  hunger is readily apparent there.
``If you walk down the street in  Pyongyang and ask a child how old she is, you are usually off by three  years,'' Swedlund said.
``She may be 7 but she looks just 3 or 4.''
Dr. Katona-Apte, a nutrition expert who has worked in Bangladesh and  the Sudan, said she was shocked when she first visited a North Korean  kindergarten last year.
``There were these two children sitting at  a desk who were obviously severely malnourished _ they were so thin  and they had patchy hair,'' she said.
``And they were just sitting  there working.
This is accepted as normal!
They are in school, and  they should really be hospitalized or placed in nutritional rehabilitation.
If you saw them in a refugee camp, you would recommend immediate intervention.''
But with a severely depleted public health and hospital system, that  option does not exist, she and others said.
Many Korean doctors do  not know how to diagnose or treat malnutrition; few had seen it before  this decade.
And, in any case, the hospitals lack the food and proper  nutritional supplements.
Swedlund said most hospitals lacked medicines,  had no glass to replace broken windows and were ``colder inside than  out,'' having received no coal since 1994.
He said that even in hospitals,  sanitation and water purification systems were virtually nonexistent,  because the country lacks chlorine for purification and fuel to run  water pumps.
He said that next year, the Red Cross would start to  address those problems, spending $3.5 on food for hospital patients  and $1 million on water treatment.
With few other options, vast numbers  of North Koreans have resorted to eating ``substitute food,'' hard  cakes and noodles made from a mix of nutritional plants, like soybeans  and sweet potatoes, combined with indigestible filler, like cornstalks  and straw.
``This now constitutes 40 percent of food intake,'' Swedlund  said.
``It's becoming a regular part of the food basket.''
Doctors  in North Korea say many people suffer from stomachaches after eating  this partly indigestible material, he said, but added, ``If you're  very hungry, it fills your stomach.''
Although the North Koreans date  their food problems to a series of floods and droughts in the mid-1990's,  the foreign researchers who have worked in North Korea say medical  records and childhood growth patterns indicate that the hunger began  several years before that and is linked to the collapse of the Soviet  Union, which had long been North Korea's main supplier of food, fuel  and fertilizer.
North Korea is a mountainous country, with less than  20 percent arable land.
It has been a food importer for decades, mostly  from the former Soviet Union, but also from China.
``The country has  to come to grips with the fact that this is part of a structural problem  and can't just be blamed on the weather anymore,'' Ms. Cheng-Hopkins  said.
Still, she and others praised the normally rigid and secretive  government for slowly loosening its restrictions.
Swedlund said that  after three years in the country, the international Red Cross, which  collaborates with the North Korean Red Cross, had found officials  increasingly responsive and doctors more willing to share medical  records and bring up problems.
Travel is still restricted.
There are  more than 100 counties, home to 30 percent of the population, to which  aid groups have no access and where they have therefore refused to  provide food or medical supplies.
Still, the number of counties open  to the workers has increased steadily, and freedom to move about has  improved.
Ms. Cheng-Hopkins said about half of follow-up inspections  were now unannounced, and she noted that the researchers in the nutritional  survey were allowed to select villages to visit and enter homes at  random.
Workers from the Red Cross and the World Food Program said  they had not observed extreme scenes of people dying of acute starvation  and believe that they would have if they were occurring frequently.
``I have not seen acute starvation like I have seen in Bangladesh,''  Dr. Katona-Apte said.
``But that doesn't mean it can't exist.
We're  still really limited in what we can see.''
Swedlund said it was unlikely  that the counties still closed to foreigners were markedly different  from the open ones.
And while some have surmised that the closed counties  might harbor pockets of death and devastation, he said he accepted  North Korea's explanation that they had been excluded from some areas  for national security reasons.
``One thing I've learned is how important  national security issues are to the North Koreans,'' said Swedlund,  a retired admiral in the Swedish Navy.
``And I really think these  areas are important from that standpoint,'' he added, going through  a map of closed areas and describing what Western intelligence experts  know about military installations there.
He also rejected the notion  that the North Korean military is stealing donated food, a charge  leveled by the organization Doctors Without Borders, when it angrily  pulled out of North Korea last summer to protest the many restrictions  on groups working there.
Now that aid groups say they are starting  to get somewhat better cooperation from the North Koreans, they hope  to repeat their nutrition survey every 6 to 12 months.
And they are  still analyzing some tantalizing findings: Boys were twice as likely  to suffer from stunted growth as girls, and every child whose mother  was dead was malnourished.
``A generation of North Korean children  is already scarred for life,'' said Astrid Heiberg, president of the  International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies,  in an interview in Beijing after a trip to North Korea.
``We need  to continue to mobilize resources to prevent an even greater catastrophe.''
The Asian Games scheduled for Bangkok Dec. 6-20, 1998 were never a sure thing.
Thailand was in economic doldrums and there was question whether the sports complex for the games would be completed in time.
By late October, however, it was clear the games could take place.
Thai police rounded up beggars who might intimidate spectators, but then in late November Saudi Arabia withdrew its teams and there was concern that athletes might be tempted by Bangkok's nightlife and the availability of Viagra.
But on Dec. 6 the games opened as scheduled as 6,000 athletes from 41 nations competed, including a heated snooker match between India and Pakistan.
Despite economic problems and threats from the Asian Olympic Committee that it would move the games, Thailand was able to meet construction deadlines and open the 13th annual Asian Games to participants from 43 countries.
The games have not been without controversy.
In a surprise move, Saudi Arabia pulled its athletes from the games, probably in reprisal for a jewel theft and the murder of three of its diplomats.
There was speculation that the Saudis would send a ceremonial delegation.
National rivalries also were Apparent in a snooker game between India and Pakistan when an argument Arose following a disputed call.
Bangkok prepared for the 6000 athletes from 41 nations to compete in the Asian Games.
Thai police detained more than 300 beggars to make the city's streets safer, but its notorious night life concerned some team managers.
China considered recalling overseas soccer players to bolster chances at the Games.
Saudi Arabia abruptly withdrew its 105-man team citing the approach of Ramadan but more likely for past grievances with the Thais.
Later, they considered sending a "small team".
The Iranian equestrian team's horses failed the vet's exam.
The Thai King opened the Games with an elaborate ceremony.
Rivals India and Pakistan argued during a snooker match.
Despite concern that corruption, incompetence and financial failure would delay or prevent Thailand's ability to host the Asian Games, Bangkok was ready for the December 6 deadline.
After an extravagant opening ceremony, the games went well despite a brief soccer brawl, a snooker game incident, the banning of Iran's equestrian team horses for not being disease free, and the withdrawal of Saudi Arabia over strained relations with Thailand.
Thai police cleared the streets of beggars and criminals, and athletes were disciplined to avoid Bangkok's night life.
China's recall of four soccer players from Europe is testimony of the importance of the games.
Organizers of December's Asian Games have dismissed press reports  that a sports complex would not be completed on time, saying preparations  are well in hand, a local newspaper said Friday.
Santiparb Tejavanija,  deputy secretary of the Bangkok Asian Games Organizing Committee,  said construction of the sports complex at the Muang Thong Thani housing  estate is 95 percent complete and will be finished this month, the  Bangkok Post reported.
Liquidity problems at Bangkok Land, the company  that owns the housing estate, threatened to prevent the company from  finishing the complex in time for the Dec. 6-20 games.
Deputy Prime  Minister Bhichai Rattakul, who chairs the organizing committee, expressed  doubt last month that the complex would be completed on time because  of the financial problems.
Santiparb told the Post the money problems  had been overcome by shifting 200 million baht (dlrs 5 million) worth  of credit guarantees from a project that had been scrapped to cover  the construction cost of the complex.
Preparations for the games have  been plagued by political interference by previous governments, alleged  corruption and incompetence.
The decision to award the contract for  the sports complex was controversial, with critics calling it an attempt  to bail out the property developer's failed housing estate.
Doubts  over Thailand's ability to stage the games increased over the past  year-and-a-half after the country entered its worst economic downturn  in decades.
The body governing the games threatened several times  to award Asia's version of the Olympics to other countries, but Thailand  argued that all would be ready by opening day.
The Bangkok games are  expected to attract more than 10,000 athletes from 43 nations.
Thailand showed its nearly complete facilities for the Asian Games  the heads of the organizing committees  from the 43 nations competing in the December event.
Thailand won  host rights for the quadrennial games in 1995, but setbacks in preparations  led officials of the Olympic Council of Asia late last year to threaten  to move the games to another country.
They complained that the Thai  organizers were behind in constructing facilities and had failed to  keep them informed.
It appeared that Thursday's tour was successful  in reassuring everyone.
``We have a strong of sense of relief,'' said  Abdul Muttaleb al-Ahmad, director general of the Kuwait-based Olympic  Council of Asia and a frequent critic of Thailand's organizing committee.
``Everything is 99 percent completed.''
In a welcoming speech, Thai  Deputy Prime Minister Bhichai Rattakul, also chairman of the Thai  organizing committee, told delegation members to cast aside any doubts  over whether the Dec. 6-20 games will be a success.
``I can hereby  confirm that regardless of what Thailand has faced, we ... have tried  to accommodate all requests for the 13th Asian Games,'' said Bhichai.
Since the Thai organizers began their preparations, they have faced  many difficulties, most of them resulting from the country's financial  crisis, he said.
But the country was able to pull it through, he added.
``This is an example of Asia's resiliency.
We have financial problems  in all of Asia but still we are able to prepare commendably,'' said  Manuel Veguillas, head of the Philippine delegation.
``I am impressed,''  said Tu Mingde, secretary-general of China's Olympic Committee.
``The  games will be a success.''
Still, Bangkok's infamous traffic jams  did not go overlooked.
``My only concern now is the road construction  leading to the site,'' said Kenji Ono from Japan.
Construction workers  are trying to ensure that the road leading to the stadium, including  a flyover at a key intersection, will be completed on time for the  games.
The Olympic Council of Asia, meanwhile, is working with the  Bangkok Organizing Committee to come up with a contingency plan in  case of any possible emergency, said its director general, Muttaleb.
``You cannot really anticipate anything,'' he said, as he toured the  main stadium of the Sports Authority of Thailand.
``Any venue can  have a problem, such as electrical failure.''
Thai police have detained more than 300 beggars, most from neighboring  countries, in a campaign to make Bangkok's streets safer for spectators  and athletes arriving for the upcoming Asian Games, a senior police  officer said Friday.
Arrests were made throughout Bangkok during a  four-day crackdown on panhandlers.
About 100 of those detained were  displayed Friday to local and foreign press at a detention center  in Bangkok.
``Most come here because of economic hardship,'' said  Maj. Gen. Chanvut Vajrabukka, deputy commissioner for the immigration  police.
``There are some beggars, however, who are under control of  gangsters.
They could cause trouble for tourists and athletes.''
Other  groups targeted by police in advance of the Asian Games are foreign  criminal gangs believed to operate in Bangkok and other major cities  in Thailand.
The Asian Games will be held from the Dec. 6-20.
China's national soccer team could call back four players from overseas  to boost its chances at the Asian Games in Thailand in December, an  official newspaper reported Monday.
Two of the players, Fan Zhiyi  and Sun Jihai, play for Crystal Palace in the English First Division.
Another, Yang Chen, plays in Germany, while Li Jinyu is with Nantes  in France.
Englishman Bob Houghton, who coaches the national team,  said recalling Fan and Sun for the Asian Games would allow him to  ``see if they can bring the things they have learned recently in England  to the national team,'' the China Sports Daily said.
Houghton also  said that Yang, who plays in Frankfurt, ``very possibly could become  an extremely important player in the national team,'' the newspaper  reported.
Li, who has not had many chances to play since his move  to France, also ``is very willing to come back,'' the newspaper said.
China and South Korea will both field their Asian Games teams at a  friendly warm-up match Nov. 22, the newspaper said.
The Asian Games  are held every four years.
Saudi Arabia's abrupt withdrawal from the Asian Games left organizers  scrambling Thursday to change schedules and Thai diplomats mulling  a decade of relations strained by jewel theft and the murder of diplomats.
Bhichai Rattakul, deputy prime minister and president of the Bangkok  Asian Games Organizing Committee, asked the Foreign Ministry to urge  the Saudi government to reconsider withdrawing its 105-strong team.
The games open Dec. 6.
``We're not sure if this is related to the  Saudi jewel scandal,'' Bhichai told Thai radio.
``But regardless,  we should not mix sports with politics.''
In a letter to the Thai  prime minister's office, reported Thursday by Bangkok newspapers,  Saudi sports authorities cited the looming Muslim holy month of Ramadan  and national centenary celebrations as reasons for suddenly pulling  out.
But suspicion immediately arose that the real reason was the  continued strain in relations since a Thai janitor stole precious  jewelry from the palace of a Saudi prince in 1989 and fled home.
Thai  police recovered the jewels and returned them, but many were fakes  leading the Saudis to conclude that corrupt officers and members  of Thailand's power elite kept the loot.
The real jewels have never  been recovered.
Tensions were aggravated in 1990 and 1991, when three  Saudi diplomats were murdered in Bangkok.
In retaliation, the Saudis  barred new Thai guest workers and refused to renew the visas of the  thousands already in the desert kingdom.
The killings remain unsolved.
Saudi Arabia has said relations would be normalized only when the  two cases were solved.
Kobsak Chutikul, a Foreign Ministry spokesman,  said it would be understandable if Saudi Arabia pulls out because  of Ramadan fasting.
``If there is any other reason behind this, such  as the jewelry case and the murders, we will regret it very much because  sports should be separated from politics,'' Kobsak said.
Organizers  noted that 10 other Muslim nations are sending teams.
Suggestions  were made that in the future, the Olympic Council of Asia should consider  punishing last-minute withdrawals.
Organizers need to hold new draws  for both handball and basketball because of the pullout, but said  the live television coverage schedule will not be affected.
The withdrawal  is expected to cost 30 million baht (dlrs 830,000) to cover the committee's  expenses for organizing programs, accommodation and television schedules.
They said they would consult with the council, which oversees the  organization of the games, about the impact of the Saudi withdrawal.
Officials, meanwhile, expressed shock over a brawl that erupted Tuesday  during a friendly soccer match between Thailand and Qatar.
The scoreless  match was suspended without further play after players from both sides  kicked, punched and body-slammed each other for about 10 minutes.
Several suffered light injuries.
``As a host, surely the melee will  have an impact on the image and reputation of Thailand,'' said Santiparb  Tejavanija, chairman of the administrative committee.
``Nobody wanted  that incident to happen.''
Officials said that forgiveness was a better  option than punishment and that both sides would be admonished not  to let a repeat brawl occur.
Horses belonging to Iran's equestrian team will not be allowed to  compete in next month's Asian Games because they failed to meet the  requirements of the games' veterinary commission, the Thai organizers  announced Thursday.
The three horses originally came from Iran, but  arrived in Thailand after a training period in the United States.
They did not have the necessary health certificates guaranteeing that  they are disease-free, said Siraya Chunekamrai, president of the Veterinary  Commission for the games.
This is the first Asian Games in which competitors  have been allowed to bring their own horses from abroad.
According  to regulations, all participating horses had to be screened for a  number of diseases before arriving in Thailand.
Siraya said she felt  sorry for the Iranian team because the problem resulted from ignorance  of the rules.
Iran is the only country that did not pass the requirements.
``They are the most beautiful horses of all,'' she said.
``I am so  sorry for the team but cannot allow them to compete because it is  against the rules and it might affect other horses' good health.''
There is only one Thai horse available on standby for the Iranians,  as Thailand was not prepared for such a problem, Siraya said.
``If  the Iranian team can borrow a couple of more horses from other participating  countries, they still can compete,'' she said.
There are 106 horses  and 12 countries participating in the equestrian events.
Most of the  horses actually come from Europe and the United States.
Thailand has  provided a climate-controlled stable and field cleared of contaminants  to help the horses become acclimatized to the tropical heat before  the competition begins Dec. 8.
Many of the horses are suffering stress  from the journey here, but those from Asian countries are adjusting  faster than those from cold countries, Siraya said.
Saudi Arabia is considering sending a small team to the Bangkok Asian  Games from which it pulled out unexpectedly this week, a Saudi official  said Saturday.
Saudi Arabia's top sports official, Prince Faisal bin  Fahd, is studying a proposal by the Olympic Council of Asia to at  least send a symbolic delegation to the Dec. 6-20 Games, said the  official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The plea to reconsider  was made by Sheik Ahmad al-Fahd al Sabah, president of the Olympic  Council of Asia.
Sheik Ahmad, a member of the Kuwaiti royal family,  is a friend of Prince Faisal.
Saudi Arabia's sudden announcement Wednesday  that it is withdrawing its 105-member team shocked hosts Thailand,  who remain skeptical about the official reasons offered.
Saudi sports  authorities said the Games conflicted with national centenary celebrations  and the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
But observers point rather to  Saudi anger at the failure of Thai authorities to solve two, decade-old  criminal cases involving their nationals: the theft of dlrs 20 million  worth of jewels from a Saudi prince and the murder of three Saudi  diplomats in Bangkok.
The cases are widely believed to involve people  high up in the power hierarchy, who in Thailand rarely face prosecution.
Saudi Arabia has in the past said relations would only be normalized  when the two cases were solved.
Thai newspapers reported Saturday  that attempts to convince Saudi Arabia to participate in the upcoming  13th Asian Games have failed.
Thai Olympic Committee Chairman Gen.  Chettha Thanajaro told the Bangkok Post he sent a last-minute plea  to his Saudi counterpart but has received no response.
``I have done  my best.
We have to respect their decision,'' he told the Post.
The  withdrawal has thrown the Games' schedules into disarray.
A snooker game between longtime Asian rivals India and Pakistan led  to a flareup of tempers Sunday, showing a depth of differences that  shocked Thai organizers and spectators at the Asian Games.
India and  Pakistan have fought three wars since becoming independent in 1947.
A Thai referee's decision that India's Yashin Merchant had committed  a foul during a decisive frame sparked a fierce debate with the referee  that forced stoppage of play for 15 minutes.
Merchant defeated Mohammad  Saleh 5-4 after order was restored, but the incident not only violated  the sport's strict etiquette, but showed the distrust between the  two neighbors that often has spilled over into sports.
The referee  ruled that Merchant's white cue ball had first touched the black before  hitting the target, red.
Merchant protested.
With the referee refusing  to reverse his decision, Merchant sought help from the Indian team.
Several Indian team members went to the playing arena, and one of  them wrote a quick protest letter using the snooker table as a writing  platform.
Disgusted spectators viewed it as a breach of snooker etiquette.
``It does not look nice for grownup men wearing neckties to fight,''  said Pakistani team manager Shahnawaz Khan.
``We just watched the  whole drama,'' he said.
Pakistani team officials did not intervene,  instead staying in their allocated seats.
``It was made very clear  to everybody that a referee's decision will be final, but now that  the Indians have lodged a formal complaint, we have also done so,''  Khan said.
The Indian complaint, however, has no meaning now as Merchant  has won.
Indian officials were not available for comment.
Tournament  director Surasak Werapong said both complaints were thrown out because  neither side paid the required dlrs 50 filing fee.
The match was one  of the first as snooker made its Asian Games debut in style, with  elated officials greeting the opening with muffled clapping, in keeping  with the sport's etiquette.
A total of 19 countries are vying for  10 gold medals in snooker and billiards.
The preliminary elimination  rounds began Sunday.
``This is the brightest day for us,'' said Manmohanjit  Singh, the Singapore-born president of the International Billiards  and Snooker Federation, the sport's world governing body.
``This is  indeed a high step and this will greatly help to make the sport more  popular in Asia, which is coming up fast,'' said Singh, whose family  migrated to Singapore from India several decades ago.
With the addition  of snooker, the Asian Games now have 36 sports.
For some teams, ``out of bounds'' at the Asian Games means more than  just a line on a soccer field or basketball floor.
That's because  the host city offers the punchy mix of Viagra and notorious night  life.
The Pakistanis say all their athletes and officials for the  games opening Sunday have been told not to even think of the wonder  drug and ``night life ideas.''
The Indian team's solution is mandatory  meetings for all athletes before bedtime.
The Sri Lankan participants,  who had to sign a code of conduct before coming to Bangkok, are being  watched by an army brigadier with a track record of high discipline.
The Chinese have done their homework on staying out of trouble.
Thailand,  especially the capital Bangkok, is known worldwide for its titillating  night life.
From taxi drivers to local tourist magazines distributed  free at hotels, there are messengers aplenty to advertise massage  parlors and escort services.
Minutely detailed photo albums seek to  arouse sensual fantasies.
Estimates of the number of female sex workers  in Thailand, a country of 60 million, range from more than 300,000  to 2 million.
Under Thailand's drug rules, Viagra is not available  in drug stores, but is sold only in hospital pharmacies with a prescription  from a urologist, cardiologist, endocrinologist or psychiatrist for  400 baht (about dlrs 10) a dose.
But there is a black market in the  drug that might prove an attraction for some among the more than 15,000  athletes, officials and media personnel in Bangkok.
``No way,'' said  Gurdayal Singh Mander, leader of the Indian contingent, when asked  if there was a risk of lack in discipline.
``I believe no one will  try anything silly in Bangkok.
Even if they try, our watching system  is watertight and we will know,'' said Mander, a former police officer.
Indian officials in charge of various sports meet their athletes at  10 p.m. before bedtime at the Asian Games village.
The Pakistanis  have opted for trust and nationalism.
``Oh, Viagra,'' exclaimed Pakistani  medical officer Yousef Baig.
``They know all about it and they know  all about Bangkok.
We have told them, don't break our trust and keep  the good name of Pakistan flying high,'' Dr. Baig said.
China has  taken a similar approach.
``We don't treat them as kids, telling them  don't do this, don't do that.
We just told them to leave a good impression  of Chinese athletes,'' said Li Furong, deputy head of the Chinese  delegation.
For the Sri Lankans, ``we have told them that they will  not be allowed outside the games village until they finish their discipline,''  said Upali Bandaratillaka, a serving brigadier in the Sri Lankan army.
``Even if they want to go to shopping, one of us will accompany them,''  Bandaratillaka said.
His deputy is a police officer.
Host Thailand  is stressing that sex isn't lurking around every corner.
A ``Traditional  Thai Massage Parlor'' has been opened at the games' village.
``Thai  traditional massage is considered an art form,'' said Prarop Laovanich,  secretary of the Asian Games Sub-Committee for Culture and Performance.
``A skilled masseur can cure ailments and muscular fatigue.''
And  one must wear baggy white pajamas before a traditional Thai massage.
In rites building from low flares symbolizing dawn to a fiery cauldron  lighting, Thailand's king opened the Asian Games Sunday night, giving  Thais some respite from an economic crisis that once threatened the  continent's Olympic-style event.
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the world's  longest-reigning monarch, was upstaged slightly by Japan's Naoko Takahashi.
In a marathon run in early morning, to avoid the worst of Bangkok's  tropical heat, she won the games' first gold medal in a time just  one minute off the world record.
Her medal ceremony immediately preceded  the official opening festivities for two weeks of competition among  6,000 athletes from 41 nations.
In all, 377 gold medals are at stake  in 36 sports, including Asian specialities such as kabaddi and sepak  takraw.
But the king not only made the key proclamation and released  the royal pigeon, he also anointed a plaque for the Royal Main Stadium  and composed some of the music.
Songs written by the king, a talented  jazz composer, were played by the Bangkok Symphony Orchestra.
Thai  officials who approached him at the ceremony did so on their knees.
Others greeting the king included International Olympic Committee  President Juan Antonio Samaranch.
A cascade of fireworks in honor  of his 71st birthday Saturday and dancers who prostrated themselves  on the field welcomed the monarch to his seat in the royal box.
Then  came the athletes, starting with Cambodia and ending with the host  Thai team.
Saudi Arabia, which withdrew its team at the last minute,  was represented by only a flag bearer.
The Sri Lankan team was led  by six dancers in bright costumes, who delighted the crowd in the  60,000-seat stadium with acrobatic maneuvers.
Each team was led by  a Thai beauty queen holding its signboard.
After the parade, five  of the women collapsed, and three were taken out on stretchers.
A  giant cauldron atop the stadium was lit by touching a torch to a smaller  cauldron inside a model of a temple, which then was lifted on an elevator  and sent an explosion of sparks into the games' flame receptacle.
Outside the stadium before the ceremony, long lines of people waited  to take photos of themselves in front of a plastic statue of the games'  elephant mascot, ``Chai-yo.''
One, Sakchai Pungsrinon, a 30-year-old  piping engineer, who paid 1,000 baht (dlrs 26) for his ceremonies  ticket, said, ``Thailand has many problems.
Asia also has many problems.
For two weeks, maybe we can forget about all these problems.''
Several  thousand people without tickets milled around outside, waving small  Thai flags and waiting for a glimpse of the king.
They also could  watch the ceremony on a large television screen.
Security measures  many sending  reduced teams to ease the pinch of the Asian crisis _ the games are  a proving ground for the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia.
``It's  not just getting a gold, it's getting a gold with a result that is  close or at world standards,'' said Li Furong, deputy head of China's  Asian Games delegation.
``The main target is the 2000 Olympics.''
Sunday's focus was more on pageantry, beginning with slightly built  Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai leading off a torch relay at 9:09 a.m.  (0209 GMT), reflecting popular belief that nine is a lucky number.
Bhumibol is the ninth king of the current dynasty.
The three-hour  ceremonies featured 7,614 performers in lavishly produced acts with  the theme ``Friendship Beyond Frontiers.''
Performers in ancient Thai  garb paraded across the field, followed by people-drawn chariots.
A martial arts display celebrated Asian unity, and hundreds of primary  school students dressed in colorful outfits introduced the games'  mascot.
Parts of the ceremony were built around the Indian Ramayana  epic, the basis for much of traditional Thai mythology, literature  and performing and fine arts.
The field became a swirl of giant snakes,  swans, birds, angels, and other mystical creatures.
Another performance  celebrating the unity of Asia capped the show, with four large swan  floats pulled to the middle of the field, each tethered to a giant  balloon symbolizing the sun, moon, earth and a giant lotus.
Fireworks  burst overhead, searchlights played across the stadium and lasers  split the darkness before the royal anthem concluded the program.
The combined budget for the opening and closing ceremonies was 70  million baht (dlrs 1.94 million), including a large share of donated  and at-cost labor _ part of Thailand's remedy for overcoming financial  problems that hit the games.
In warming up the audience before the  ceremonies, a Thai comedian jested: ``If you're Saudi, raise your  hand.''
Saudi Arabia withdrew from the games at the last minute, throwing  some of the scheduling into disarray.
It cited a national holiday  and the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, but many Thais saw the move  as retaliation for the failure of Thai police to solve a number of  serious crimes against Saudi citizens.
On the eve of China's signing the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) in October 1998, police detained Chinese human rights advocate Qin Yongmin for questioning.
Eight weeks after signing the ICCPR, Chinese police arrested Qin and an associate in the China Democracy Party (CDP), Xu Wenli, without stating charges.
Another CDP leader already in custody, Wang Youcai, was accused of "inciting the overthrow of the government".
Qin and Wang went to trial in December for inciting subversion.
Police pressure on potential defense attorneys forced the accused to mount their own defenses.
Xu Wenli had not yet been charged.
Although China was expected to sign a key U.N. human rights treaty, it continues to question and arrest political dissidents.
Qin Yongmin was arrested following his attempt to form a human rights monitoring group.
Fellow dissident Xu Wenli was arrested for trying to form an opposition party.
Another dissident flew China for the U.S. to avoid arrest.
In making the arrests, China has charged that the dissidents have threatened national security.
Facing trial, Xu Wenli and Qin Yongmin were unable to obtain legal counsel.
Qin Youngmin, attempting to defend himself, was cut off several times by the judge in a trial lasting just over two hours.
China continues to arrest dissidents even as it prepares to sign a UN human rights treaty and to host the first visit by a British PM in seven years.
The dissident China Democracy Party believes it is legal to challenge the communists' power monopoly, but the PRC cites a "grab-bag" section of the criminal code making almost any political activity illegal.
The US has protested the arrests.
Two dissidents, Qin Yongmin and Wang Youcai must defend themselves at trail since lawyers have been dissuaded from assisting them.
Other dissidents continue to be harassed and arrested.
One dissident, Yao Zhenxian, was released from a labor camp and fled to New York.
China arrested an activist on the eve of signing an international human rights agreement.
It arrested an activist against official corruption and refused a monitoring group permission to operate.
The China Democracy Party was founded during Clinton's visit to China.
Founders were arrested for harming national security, sparking protests.
One activist fled to NY.
The arrests and speedy trials showed China's resolve to prevent opposition to the Communist Party.
Defendents were prevented from getting lawyers so defended themselves.
Their trials lasted only two hours each.
The judge cut off one defendent's arguments and a US official was barred from a trial.
Hours before China was expected to sign a key U.N. human rights treaty  and host British Prime Minister Tony Blair, police hauled a prominent  human rights campaigner in for questioning Monday.
Qin Yongmin's latest  run-in with the authorities came as he tried for the second time in  a week to legally register a human rights monitoring group.
Qin said  a civil affairs official in the Hubei provincial capital of Wuhan  accused him of engaging in illegal activities.
The police came soon  after he returned home.
``As I'm sending this statement, the Wuhan  Public Security Bureau is again taking me away,'' Qin said in a hastily  scrawled message on the bottom of the typed statement faxed to reporters.
Qin, detained briefly two weeks ago, was questioned for about three  hours before being released and threatened with prosecution if he  persisted in trying to set up his China Human Rights Observer.
Qin  hoped the harassment would stop after China signs the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, but he said if local authorities  don't observe the treaty ``we will unswervingly push ahead with protecting  human rights to the last.''
China plans to sign the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on Monday at the United Nations.
By the time the ink is dry, Blair should be landing in Beijing on  Tuesday morning for the first visit by a British prime minister in  seven years.
The treaty is supposed to guarantee freedoms of speech  and assembly.
But even after China signs, the treaty would not come  into force until ratified by the legislature, which may attach reservations  effectively nullifying some provisions.
Blair has vowed to discuss  differences over human rights with Chinese leaders.
His visit has  drawn appeals from dissidents and an international press freedom group  urging him to persuade Chinese leaders to free political prisoners.
In an open letter, three dissident said that while Chinese leaders  say they respect human rights principles, in law and practice the  government allows rights abuses and persecution of dissidents.
Thousands  of political prisoners are believed to remain in Chinese prisons,  labor camps or detention centers, said the letter, a copy of which  was released by the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights  and Democratic Movement in China.
The letter called for the release  of Shi Binhai, a journalist who compiled a popular book on political  change; Fang Jue, a businessman who called openly for political reform;  and other imprisoned activists.
Paris-based Reporters Without Borders  urged Blair to call for the release of Gao Yu, Liu Xiaobo and Liu  Jingsheng.
The three are among 13 journalists imprisoned ``simply  for attempting to practice their profession,'' it said in a statement.
Police detained and questioned the organizer of a group set up by  dissidents to monitor official corruption and told him the group's  activities must cease, a human rights group said Thursday.
Police  in Xinyang, in central China's Henan province, took An Jun away Wednesday  afternoon and held him until past midnight for questioning about the  group's members, said the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic  Movement in China.
Police wanted a list of members with their work  and home addresses, a demand An Jun refused for fear of getting them  into trouble, the Hong Kong-based Information Center said.
Corruption  Watch, founded by nine dissidents in seven provinces, now has nearly  100 members, the center said.
It applied last month to the government  to register officially, but received no response, the center added.
The police officers who questioned An Jun said that without official  permission, the group must cease its activities, the center said.
Rampant official corruption is a major public gripe in China.
The  Information Center said Corruption Watch had already received reports  of graft in its first month of operation.
In a separate report, the  center said that an official in the Sichuan provincial government  refused Thursday to accept an application by three dissidents to form  a branch of a would-be opposition group, the China Democracy Party.
Groups of dissidents in cities across China have attempted to register  the group, as required by law, but authorities have rejected those  applications.
Signaling that the Communist Party's 49-year-old ban  on opposition groups remains intact, police have detained and questioned  many dissidents associated with the group.
China's central government ordered the arrest of a prominent democracy  campaigner and may use his contacts with exiled Chinese dissidents  to charge him with harming national security, a colleague said Wednesday.
Two Beijing police officers spent 30 minutes telling Zha Jianguo to  stop trying to set up a political opposition party.
Underscoring the  warning, they said his colleague, Xu Wenli, won't be released soon  and may be charged for having links to ``reactionary groups,'' Zha  said.
Xu and another influential dissident, Qin Yongmin, were arrested  Monday night in police raids in two cities that delivered the sternest  blow so far to a five-month campaign to establish the China Democracy  Party and challenge the ruling Communist Party's monopoly on power.
Qin was arrested for plotting to overthrow the government, a crime  that could land him in jail for life.
A third Democracy Party advocate,  Wang Youcai, already in custody for a month, was also formally arrested  Monday although his family has not been informed of the charges.
Zha,  who helped Xu organize would-be party members in Beijing and the nearby  port of Tianjin, said police officers told him Xu's arrest was ordered  by the central government, not Beijing police.
He took the police  reference to ``reactionary groups'' to mean exiled dissidents in the  United States.
Under China's vague State Security Law, such links  may also be punishable by up to life in prison.
Zha pledged to work  with dissidents in China and exiles in the United States to campaign  ``to save Xu Wenli.''
On Wednesday, 190 dissidents from around the  country demanded in an open letter that the government release Xu,  Qin and Wang Youcai, saying the arrests run counter to U.N. human  rights treaties China has signed over the past 14 months.
The authorities  ``are deceiving and cheating international public opinion while on  the other hand they are suppressing and persecuting domestic political  dissidents,'' said the letter faxed to foreign news agencies.
In Washington,  White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said the United States deplored  the detention and arrests of Xu and Qin.
``We believe the peaceful  political activities of this kind and other forms of peaceful expression  that they've been involved in are fundamental human rights that should  be protected by all governments,'' Lockart said.
``We call on the  Chinese government to assure the protection in these cases of Mr.  Xu and Mr. Qin.''
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said U.S.  officials conveyed their concerns to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign  Affairs and urged that Xu be released immediately.
U.S. officials  received confirmation Wednesday that Xu is being detained on suspicion  of ``having conducted activities damaging to China's national security,''  Rubin said.
He said he had no information from Chinese authorities  about Qin or Wang.
Two other democracy party supporters taken into  Chen Zhonghe and Xiao  Shichang _ were released Wednesday morning, said He Xintong, Xu Wenli's  wife.
She added that police questioned the pair about the party as  well as Qin's human rights monitoring organizations.
Qin and Xu are  towering figures in China's persecuted dissident community.
Their  activism dates to the seminal Democracy Wall movement of the 1970s.
Wang was a student leader in 1989's influential Tiananmen Square democracy  movement.
All have spent time in prison, Xu for 12 years, much of  it in solitary confinement.
Xu's wife said she does not know where  he is being held and, in her 20-year experience with the authorities,  believes they are unlikely to tell her.
Released in 1993, Xu picked  up his campaigning for political change soon after his parole ended  last year.
He has tried to use China's nascent legal system and the  international treaties it signed to push for reform.
``My husband  is innocent and there's nothing he can be criticized for,'' said his  wife, He Xintong.
``They're going to have to expend a lot of effort  to make him a criminal.''
China's government said Thursday that two prominent dissidents arrested  the clearest  sign yet Chinese leaders plan to quash a would-be opposition party.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao refused to specify what laws  were broken or how Xu Wenli and Qin Yongmin endangered the state.
A third leading advocate of the China Democracy Party who has been  in custody for a month, Wang Youcai, was accused of ``inciting the  overthrow of the government,'' the Hong Kong-based Information Center  of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported.
All three  men could face up to life in prison if convicted of the harshest measures  under China's vague state security law.
The ruling Communist Party  has resorted to the law to silence dissent since it went into effect  last year.
The arrests of Xu and Qin at their homes Monday night and  the accusations against them and Wang were the sharpest action Chinese  leaders have taken since dissidents began pushing to set up and legally  register the China Democracy Party in June.
Xu and Qin were ``suspected  of involvement in activities endangering state security'' and their  ``behavior breached relevant provisions of the criminal laws of the  People's Republic of China,'' Zhu said at a twice-weekly briefing.
Police in Hangzhou city notified Wang's wife Wednesday that charges  have already been submitted to prosecutors, bringing him a step closer  to trial, the Information Center said.
Xu and Qin are influential  figures in the dissident community, having started their campaign  for change 20 years ago in the seminal Democracy Wall movement.
Wang  was a student leader in the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations.
Both have served time in prison.
Xu spent 12 years in jail, much of  it in solitary confinement.
Since dissidents began organizing and  trying to legally register the China Democracy Party, police have  harassed and briefly detained more than two dozen members, but until  now the government had not leveled such politically charged allegations.
The Communist Party has never allowed another political party to form  since it took power in 1949.
In Washington on Wednesday, White House  spokesman Joe Lockhart said the United States deplored the arrests  and said the dissidents' peaceful political activities were fundamental  human rights that all governments should protect.
U.S. officials conveyed  their concerns to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and urged  that Xu and Qin be released immediately.
Zhu criticized the United  States for condemning the arrests, saying that ``no country, including  the United States, should interfere in China's internal affairs.''
China in October signed a key U.N. treaty on civil and political rights  that guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of association.
It was the 17th international human rights treaty China has signed.
Zhu told reporters there was ``absolutely no contradiction at all''  between China's support for these treaties and its arrests of the  two dissidents.
With attorneys locked up, harassed or plain scared, two prominent  dissidents will defend themselves against charges of subversion Thursday  in China's highest-profile dissident trials in two years.
Qin Yongmin's  and Wang Youcai's families were running out of options Wednesday to  help the pair, leading organizers of a budding opposition political  party.
Qin's family pleaded for a postponement at Wuhan's Intermediate  People's Court, but court officials denied the request.
Police have  detained one lawyer and threatened another, and subtler pressures  have been used on others, family members said.
Given the interference,  Wang Youcai's wife assumes he will be convicted.
``Whether he has  a lawyer or not, whatever he says, the government has already decided,''  Hu Jiangxia said.
Qin and Wang will be tried separately, in cities  500 kilometers (300 miles) apart and in proceedings attended only  by family and a few observers selected by the courts.
Qin, 44, and  Wang, 31, are accused of inciting the subversion of state power, apparently  for helping to organize the China Democracy Party.
They face from  10 years to life imprisonment if convicted under the harshest aspects  of the law.
By moving against Qin, Wang and the China Democracy Party,  the ruling Communist Party appears to be signaling its determination  to crush challenges to its monopoly on power.
Authorities have detained  or questioned more than 30 people associated with the party in a 17-day-old  crackdown.
Qin, a democracy campaigner for 20 years, and Wang, a student  leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, are among  the most active and influential members of China's dissident community.
A third prominent member of the dissident community, Xu Wenli, was  also arrested in the crackdown, but not yet charged.
To prevent displays  of solidarity outside Wang's trial, police have detained at least  ten dissidents in the eastern city of Hangzhou, a Hong Kong-based  rights group reported.
The Information Center of Human Rights and  Democratic Movement in China said many more are missing and believed  to be in custody.
To prosecute Wang, authorities violated the minimal  rights guaranteed suspects under Chinese law and ignored court orders,  his wife said.
``Even the judge asked me to hire a lawyer, but while  I was doing this, some people were doing things to stop me,'' Hu Jiangxia  said.
During one meeting with a potential defense attorney, a police  official stormed in and said, ```Don't do anything for them.
Don't  take this case.
Whoever takes the case, you can't win,''' Hu recounted.
Four law firms refused to take Qin's case, his brother Qin Xiaoguang  said.
The Information Center said one lawyer who initially agreed  to represent Qin on Monday went missing for four hours and then called  Qin's family to withdraw.
Dispirited by the harsh treatment, Qin's  family argued over whether to attend the trial.
Qin Xiaoguang said  he and his father have decided to stay away to protest the unfairness,  but another brother will go.
Three dissidents from northeastern China  sent an open letter to China's legislature and the Supreme People's  Court appealing for fair trials, the Information Center said.
It added  that authorities violated China's own laws by not ensuring Wang and  Qin have adequate representation.
The letter was the latest in a string  of petitions demonstrating the appeal of both Wang and Qin and the  idea of the China Democracy Party.
Since Wang publicly announced in  June that he and others in Hangzhou were setting up the party, dissidents  in at least 14 provinces and cities have set up party branches.
Authorities  have refused their applications to register the party as required  by law.
Wang and Qin are the most well-known dissidents China has  put on trial since Tiananmen Square student leader Wang Dan in 1996.
He was convicted of subversion and served less than two of an 11-year  sentence.
In return for his release, he agreed to go into exile.
In response to criticism from home and abroad, Chinese officials broke  their silence Wednesday to defend their arrest this week of a prominent  dissident who was trying to form an opposition political party.
``Xu  Wenli is suspected of involvement in activities damaging to national  security and has violated relevant criminal codes of the People's  Republic of China,'' said a statement from the Foreign Ministry, which  on Tuesday declined to comment on the arrest.
The sudden arrest on  Monday night of Xu, as well as several other activists involved with  him in trying to form the China Democratic Party, set off strong protests  from human rights groups, other Chinese dissidents and Washington.
``We view his detention for peacefully exercising fundamental freedoms  guaranteed by international human rights instruments as a serious  step in the wrong direction,'' State Department spokesman James P.  Rubin said in Washington on Tuesday.
U.S. officials in Beijing urged  the government to release Xu and asked for clarification as to the  exact nature of his crime.
China signed the International Covenant  of Civil and Political Rights with great fanfare in October, and Xu's  arrest is seen by human rights groups as a test of the nation's commitment  to its tenets.
Dissidents in and out of China rose to Xu's defense,  with more than a dozen activists around the country announcing that  they would begin fasts in support of Xu and another leader of the  China Democratic Party, Qin Yongmin, who was arrested in his home  in Wuhan on Monday.
Almost 200 dissidents signed a letter to the Chinese  government protesting the detentions, said the Information Center  for Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong.
Three other  Democratic Party organizers were also detained on Monday, although  two of them were released early Wednesday.
But the two more prominent  dissidents, Xu and Qin, are likely to face a much longer haul since  both have been charged with ``criminal acts.''
Xu's wife, He Xintong,  said Wednesday night that she had still not been informed of the specific  charge against her husband, although she surmised from the aggressive  behavior of the arresting officers that the sentence ``could be long.''
Qin's family was told that he was charged with ``plotting to subvert  the government,'' a crime that for serious offenses commands sentences  of three years to life.
In the Chinese criminal code, this charge  comes under a grab-bag section called ``threatening state security,''  which makes almost any political activity that questions or hampers  the authority of the Communist Party illegal, from ``violent or nonviolent  activities aimed at overthrowing the government authorities,'' to  ``activities designed to change the basic nature of the state.''
Xu's  and Qin's trouble almost certainly stems from their efforts to gain  recognition for the China Democratic Party, a loose network of pro-democracy  activists in more than a dozen cities around China that was formed  this year.
In the last six months they have become increasingly aggressive  and defiant in their attempts to register the party with the government,  submitting repeated applications even after local authorities had  declared the concept of an opposition party illegal.
They say the  Chinese Constitution does not specifically forbid the formation of  new political parties, although there have been no new parties since  the founding of the People's Republic in 1949.
In fact, the by-laws  of the China Democratic Party are fairly tame; they carefully acknowledge  the central role of the Communist Party, but also support free speech  and free elections for public officials.
``My husband thought the  time was right to begin working to form a new party, since China recently  signed the covenant on human rights,'' Ms. He said.
In September,  a few Democratic Party members got some slightly encouraging signals  from local governments, which initially accepted their applications  to form a social organization to develop a party.
But in recent weeks,  as organizers like Xu became more insistent and defiant, harassment  by the police increased.
``All this past week we felt something was  going to happen,'' Ms. He said.
``It seemed that anyone who came to  visit us was later detained for a while.
And there have been a lot  more cars from the Public Security Bureau parked outside than is usual.''
One leader of a suppressed new political party will be tried on Dec.
17 on a charge of colluding with foreign enemies of China ``to incite  the subversion of state power,'' according to court documents given  to his wife on Monday.
The decision to try the leader, Wang Youcai,  a founder of the China Democracy Party, with unusual speed suggests  how serious the Communist authorities are in their campaign to destroy  the fledgling party and silence dissidents who had begun to speak  out over the last year.
The charges that Wang faces, in a trial that  will almost certainly be secret and quick, could bring a sentence  of five years or more.
Wang, 32, has been imprisoned in his home city,  Hangzhou in eastern China, for a month, but was not formally arrested  until Nov. 30.
On that day two prominent dissidents, both promoters  of the new party, were detained.
One, Qin Yongmin, 45, of the central  city of Wuhan, and the other, Xu Wenli, 55, of Beijing, are being  held on suspicion of subversive activities.
Detailed charges have  not been filed.
Wang was a student leader in the pro-democracy demonstrations  in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
After the army had crushed the movement,  Wang was arrested and served two years in prison.
Qin and Xu became  known as democracy advocates in the late 1970s.
Qin was imprisoned  for eight years.
In 1993 he was put in a labor camp for two years.
Xu spent 12 years in prison.
When President Clinton visited in the  spring, Wang announced the formation of the Democracy Party.
He and  other dissidents hoped that China's new friendship with the United  States and its decision to sign a global covenant on political and  civil rights would give them room to promote political alternatives.
After Clinton returned home Wang was detained, warned and released,  only to be re-arrested as authorities began what now appears to be  a major crackdown on dissent.
Monday, Wang's wife, Hu Jiangxia, was  handed the bill of prosecution, according to the Information Center  of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong.
Wang is charged  with helping draft a party manifesto that states, in part, ``Only  by establishing an opposition party can we be rid of this despotism.''
That is cited as grounds for the subversion charge, the information  center said.
In addition to detailing Wang's organizing activities,  the prosecutors charge that he colluded with enemies of the state  abroad, making his crime far more serious under Chinese law.
He used  e-mail to send 18 copies of the party's founding documents abroad,  met with a member of a subversive foreign organization and received  money from foreign sources to buy a computer, the indictment reportedly  says.
A Chinese dissident fleeing a new round of arrests of democracy activists  in Shanghai arrived here Wednesday and announced that he and other  opponents of the Chinese government plan a demonstration Thursday  at the United Nations to protest the crackdown.
The dissident, Yao  Zhenxian, who was released in April from a Chinese labor camp, is  a leader of the China Democracy Party, which was formed in June during  President Clinton's visit to China.
Speaking through an interpreter  at Kennedy International Airport, Yao, 44, said little about why he  had left Shanghai, except that he and his younger brother, Yao Zhenxiang,  38, had been sent to a labor camp in 1996 on a ``trumped-up charge''  of publishing pornography.
The younger Yao, who is also a prominent  figure in the China Democracy Party, is scheduled for release in April.
Last week the Chinese government arrested 10 members and sympathizers  of the China Democracy Party, one of whom, Wang Youcai, is to go on  trial Dec. 17.
``The Chinese government feels it expanded too quickly,''  Yao said at the airport, referring to his party.
Washington gave Yao  a special visa, which expires in February.
Dr. Wang Bingzhang, 50,  an adviser to the overseas committee of the party, said later that  Yao had left China for personal and political reasons.
``They were  scared all the time,'' he said, referring to Yao's wife, Yu Yingzhang,  and daughter, Yao Yiting, 14, who accompanied him.
``The family had  a terrible life, especially the daughter.
Secret agents followed them  all the time.''
The family trading business, which was 12 years old,  was shuttered by the government in 1996, said Wang, a former surgeon  in Beijing, ``so they had no way of living.''
In addition, after Yao  made organizational trips to several provinces, democracy activists  urged him to go abroad, Wang said.
``They wanted him to tell the truth  about what is really happening in China and to call on the whole world  to pay attention,'' Wang said.
Beatrice Laroche, liaison at the United  Nations for Human Rights in China, a New York-based group, said the  China Democracy Party was a growing presence in some of China's most  populous provinces, including Sichuan.
``But their most vocal leaders  have all recently been detained,'' she added.
Ms. Laroche said the  Yao brothers, especially the younger man, won prominence by helping  to finance predecessors of the China Democracy Party with money from  the family business before it was closed by the government.
Protesting the lack of a defense lawyer, the father of a prominent  dissident is to seek a delay in his son's subversion trial, scheduled  to start on Thursday in the central city of Wuhan.
The defendant is  Qin Yongmin, 45, a democracy advocate who has spent 10 years in prison  and labor camps and has recently promoted an alternative, non-Communist  political party.
In a telephone interview Wednesday evening, his father,  Qin Qinguo, 76, said that before the trial begins, he plans to hand  the court a written plea for postponement.
If the plea is ignored,  he said he will walk out.
``I wouldn't be able to stand it,'' the  father, a retired steelworker, said, citing his frail health and high  blood pressure.
Under China's code of criminal procedure, a defendant  has the right to a defense lawyer.
But in this case, the elder Qin  said, some lawyers he approached declined to take the case, while  others were warned by security officials not to get involved.
The  father said he did not agree with his son's political tactics but  now he felt he had no choice but to protest his treatment.
Qin Yongmin  was arrested on Nov. 30, only hours after his mother died of a stroke.
``He wasn't even allowed to attend the funeral,'' Qin Qinguo said.
``And now he's not allowed to find a lawyer.''
On Thursday morning,  a few hundred miles to the east in the city of Hangzhou, Wang Youcai,  33, is to go on trial on similar charges of inciting subversion.
He,  too, has no defense lawyer.
Wang was a leader of student demonstrations  in Tiananmen Square in 1989 and served two years in prison after they  were put down by military force.
As the founder of the suppressed  new political party, the China Democracy Party, he publicly announced  its charter in June during President Clinton's visit to China.
Scores  of people around the country began to champion the new party, hopeful  that closer ties between China and the United States, and China's  signing of the international covenant on political and civil rights,  would mean a looser political climate.
But the party was soon declared  illegal and many adherents were detained, at least temporarily.
Wang  now faces charges that could land him in prison for five years or  more.
A third veteran dissident and promoter of the new party, Xu  Wenli, has been detained for weeks in Beijing and is expected to face  similar subversion charges.
In the last two days, at least 10 Democracy  Party members or supporters in the Hangzhou area have been detained  by the police and others have had their phone lines cut, reported  the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in  China, based in Hong Kong.
The separate trials of two prominent democracy advocates for inciting  subversion of the state opened Thursday morning, with the families  of both defendants protesting their inability to hire defense lawyers.
The trial in the eastern city of Hangzhou of Wang Youcai, 32, founder  of the China Democracy Party, which is now suppressed, was in session  for just two hours and 10 minutes.
It appears to be finished, although  the court did not announce a decision or say when it would.
``I don't  know what happens from here,'' said Wang's wife, Hu Jiangxia, who  was one of three relatives allowed to attend the trial.
``I don't  hold much hope,'' she added in a telephone interview.
Wang, who spent  two years in prison after the 1989 student demonstrations in Tiananmen  Square, was accused of organizing a political party that sought to  overturn Communist Party rule and of colluding with foreign enemies  of the state.
He could face five years or more in prison.
Since all  the lawyers his family approached were intimidated by security agents,  Ms. Hu said, Wang tried to mount his own defense Thursday morning  after prosecutors laid out their case.
But the judge frequently interrupted  him and cut him off after half an hour, saying he was not responding  to the specific facts of the case, she added.
Wang argued that his  activities were legal under China's constitution and under an international  covenant on political rights that China has signed, Ms. Hu said.
In  the central city of Wuhan, the trial on similar charges of Qin Yongmin,  45, a veteran dissident, also continued for something over two hours.
It will apparently be continued, said Qin's father, Qin Qingguo, since  the session ended after the prosecution presented its charges.
In  that case, too, prospective lawyers had been intimidated or detained,  family members said.
The elderly father's request to the court Thursday  morning for a postponement was ignored, so he and one of the defendant's  brothers stayed outside the court building in protest, leaving another  brother inside.
``We didn't feel there was any reason to observe the  trial because if Qin Yongmin did not have a defense attorney, then  as far as we were concerned the proceedings were meaningless,'' the  father said by telephone.
The U.S. Embassy asked to observe the trials.
When an embassy official arrived at the court in Hangzhou Thursday  morning, he was told that there were no seats available and instead  waited outside, greeting Ms. Hu when she emerged, shaken, from the  brief trial.
James Carville complained that fellow Democrats didn't join his war against Speaker Newt Gingrich leading up to the congressional elections of 1998.
Gingrich had led the impeachment inquiry against President Clinton in the House.
When, contrary to all predictions, the Democrats gained five seats in the House and held their own in the Senate, Republicans enlisted in Carville's cause, blaming Gingrich for the election results.
Gingrich battled fiercely as Rep. Livingston rallied forces against him, but ultimately Gingrich accepted defeat agreeing to cede the speakership and his seat in the House.
He blamed his defeat on blackmail by Republican cannibals.
Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich has announced that he will not seek re-election to the post when the vote comes up on November 18th.
He also announced that he would be leaving the House when his current term as Speaker expires in January.
This announcement comes on the heels of a poor Republican showing in the mid-term elections.
Although the Republicans retained a majority in the House, the Margin of Republican control shrank in the face of Democratic gains.
Gingrich had been seen as the man who led the Republicans our of the doldrums into control of the House and the Senate.
Most Democrats, except for former Clinton strategist James Carville, were hesitant to attack Speaker Newt Gingrich as the 1998 elections approached.
Republicans were expected to add to their majority in Congress.
However, Republicans lost seats in both the House and Senate.
Republicans became disenchanted with the Gingrich "vision" and blamed him for the losses.
An active campaign began to replace Gingrich as Speaker with Louisiana Congressman Robert Livingston as the main actor.
After a losing struggle to maintain his position, Gingrich resigned as Speaker.
House Republicans then turned their attention to impeachment proceedings of President Clinton.
The 1998 election ended the political career of Newt Gingrich, who had become Speaker in 1994, leading a conservative, issue-driven, GOP majority.
In Oct Democrats were urged to go after him.
Although both houses retained a narrowed GOP majority, Newt, with his combativeness and Impeachment-fixation, was blamed for the failures by both wings of his party.
The 1998 winners were Gore, Clinton, and moderates.
Newt's issues seemed dead in the booming economy and old Democratic loyalists ignored Clinton's morals and returned to the fold.
As fellow Republicans jockeyed for his positions, Newt resigned as Speaker on Nov 6 and also decided to leave his House seat.
A week after the White House and congressional Democrats disavowed  his ``war'' on Speaker Newt Gingrich, James Carville, President Clinton's  former campaign strategist and chief outside defender, put forth a  new battle cry Wednesday: He will not be muzzled.
Not only that, but  Carville went beyond his customary denunciations of Gingrich and the  Republicans and, in an interview, trained his fire on leaders in his  own party for not being sufficiently aggressive four weeks before  Election Day.
``My sense of frustration is that I believe the Democrats  have a much better chance of doing much better than anyone expects,''  Carville said.
``And I don't think anyone's emerging to try to pull  it together.
Everybody ought to be pushing, the leadership in the  Congress, the White House, the DNC.
We ought to hammer Gingrich every  day.
How can you take the Congress back if you don't make a case against  the people who are running it?
I have never heard of a strategy like  that.''
Sounding increasingly agitated, he went on: ``The only people  left to be activated in this election are Democrats.
The right wing,  they're bouncing off the walls.
They're going out to vote.''
Rep.  Dick Gephardt, the minority leader, complained to Erskine Bowles,  the White House chief of staff, after Carville appeared on the NBC  News program ``Meet the Press'' on Sept. 27 and declared, ``Cpl. Cue  Ball Carville will be rolling into battle against Newt Gingrich.''
The concern among House Democrats, one expressed by some White House  officials as well, was that Carville's vitriol would make the Democrats  appear overly partisan and could be especially damaging to Democrats  in marginal districts who do not want to appear too easy on the president.
But on Wednesday, Carville was anything but timid.
``If Gephardt people  think they've quieted me down,'' he said, ``I'm not quieted.''
Carville  said he told officials at the White House, ``Don't waste your breath  about calling me and telling me not to say this.''
Carville insisted  that he would rather do battle with Republicans than with his fellow  Democrats.
``If they want to fight with me, they can,'' he said.
``I'm  going to fight with the Republicans.''
Yet he could not help but ridicule  his party.
Asked to describe the Democrats' strategy for the election,  Carville said, ``If there is one, no one's shared it with me.''
The presidential campaign of 2000 began Wednesday, like it or not.
The millennial election will be fought on a political playing field  whose rough outlines, if not its exact boundaries, were drawn by the  voters in Tuesday's elections, which delivered a crushing disappointment  to the giddy hopes of the Republicans and an unexpected elixir to  the recently ailing Democrats.
President Clinton called it an ``astonishing''  triumph of issues over investigations and said the Democrats had won  so many major victories ``because they had a clear message.''
Republicans  agreed.
Of course the next 18 months will bring many surprises and  many reversals of fortune.
But the election results offered important  guidelines.
Tuesday was a great day for Vice President Al Gore, for  at least three reasons.
He worked furiously and successfully in the  last ten days before the balloting to persuade Democratic loyalists  not to stay home and sulk, appearing on behalf of no fewer than 224  candidates, according to his office.
A moderate within the spectrum  of his own party, he watched moderates win crucial elections, notably  in the California gubernatorial race, where Lt. Gov. Gray Davis, a  cautious pragmatist like Gore, won a smashing victory.
The returns  an even break in the Senate and a Democratic gain of five in the  House of Representatives _ also made the impeachment of President  Clinton less likely.
And the better shape Clinton is in as his term  ends, the better chance Gore, his sidekick for six years now, stands  in the presidential nomination process and, ultimately, the election.
But California voters also complicated the nominating process and  set Gore strategists to work on tactics to uncomplicate it, because  he and they consider the state absolutely central to his presidential  aspirations.
In a referendum in 1996, California adopted a primary  system under which Republicans, Democrats and independent voters would  all receive the same ballot, with candidates of all parties listed.
That violates the rules of both major parties, and a measure on the  ballot Tuesday, Proposition 3, would have rescinded the 1996 change.
But it failed, raising the possibility that California's March 7 primary  will be a mere political popularity poll, with convention delegates  chosen in caucus or convention _ a nightmare.
Tuesday was a bad day  for the Republican right.
High-profile right-wingers lost across the  country, from Attorney General Dan Lungren in the California governor's  race to Sen. Lauch Faircloth, denied re-election in North Carolina,  to Rep. Mark Neumann of Wisconsin, who failed in a Senate race despite  a huge spending advantage over Sen. Russell Feingold, to Ellen Sauerbrey  in Maryland, who proved unable on her second try to prevail over an  unpopular Democratic governor, Parris Glendening.
Both conservatives  and moderates in the party said the Republicans had to get back to  basics.
Even Speaker Newt Gingrich conceded that the results ``should  sober every Republican'' and called for new strategic thinking.
``If  you make it a referendum on a president with a 67 per cent approval  rating, as they tried to do, you shouldn't be surprised if the election  goes against you,'' said Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a moderate  whose promoters mention him weekly as a possible vice-presidential  nominee.
Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a conservative who tends to  steer away from divisive social issues, won re-election with 68 per  cent of the vote.
He is studying the possibility of a presidential  race, but before he or any other Republican nominee can hope to win,  he said in an interview Wednesday, congressional Republicans and their  leaders need to learn some lessons.
``I just hope this debacle is  a wake-up call for our people,'' he said.
``You've got to be for something  _ smaller government, better education, something.
We're seen as the  party that's against everything.''
Polls taken late in this year's  campaign bore McCain out.
They showed that the Republicans are no  longer identified with issues that were once their electoral bread  and butter, such as low taxes and law and order.
Tuesday was also  a fresh demonstration, for anyone who needed one, of the political  utility of pitching a tent big enough for almost everyone.
Black politicians  in North Carolina, Maryland and California reported that their fears  of an indifferent black turnout had proved groundless.
Black votes  proved indispensable to a considerable number of hard-pressed Democratic  candidates, especially where they felt their interests directly threatened.
The figures on Hispanic voting, assembled from exit polls and from  the candidates' own precinct analyses, showed dramatic differences.
In California, where the outgoing Republican governor, Pete Wilson,  had played the anti-immigration card with a vengeance, both major  Democratic candidates _ Davis and Sen. Barbara Boxer, who won re-election  after trailing in early polls _ cleaned up among Hispanic voters.
He took 78 percent, she 72.
But both of the Bush brothers, Jeb in  Florida and George W. in Texas, took more than half the Hispanic vote  in their highly successful gubernatorial campaigns.
So did McCain.
Jeb Bush is married to a Hispanic woman, he and his brother both speak  Spanish fluently and frequently, and Senator McCain has long espoused  Hispanic causes.
Both George W. Bush and McCain will draw strength,  if they decide to run, from their proven ability to appeal to Hispanic  voters, as well as their general electoral strength.
George W. Bush  took 69 percent of the vote in Texas, where a Democrat sat in the  governor's chair only four years ago, and which has the second-largest  bloc of electoral votes.
Florida has the fourth-largest.
Governor  Bush of Texas uttered a rallying cry for the moderates.
``A leader  who is compassionate and conservative,'' he said in his victory speech,  ``can erase the gender gap and open the Republican party to new faces  and new voices.''
But figures on the right saw things differently.
James Dobson, a leading religious broadcaster, said that Republicans  had fared poorly because Gingrich and Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi,  the majority leader, had caved in to the president on the budget and  de-emphasized social issues such as abortion and flag desecration.
He called all but explicitly for the ouster of Gingrich.
Likewise,  the millionaire publisher Steve Forbes, another probable candidate  in 2000, said the leadership ``will have a lot to answer for.''
Tuesday  proved the potency of education as an issue, and suggested that it  will emerge as a major theme of the 2000 campaign.
Clinton, in his  limited involvement in the campaign, and Gore, in his extensive participation,  both stressed Democratic programs to build more schools and hire more  teachers.
Almost a quarter of California voters _ and there are now  almost twice as many voters in California as in any other state _  named education as their most pressing concern.
Elsewhere, Democrats  won the governorships of Alabama and South Carolina against the odds,  partly by emphasizing their rivals' opposition to lotteries that will  help to pay for schools.
In Iowa, a Democrat was elected governor  for the first time since 1969 on a platform that featured the dilapidated  condition of the state's schools and a promise to remedy it.
Tuesday  demonstrated the overriding importance of money in modern American  politics.
Feingold, one of the principal backers of campaign-finance  reform, survived to fight another day, but so did opponents of reform.
And the returns in House races, showing that all but six of 401 members  who sought re-election had won, underlined once again how hard it  is, under the present system, for a challenger to raise enough money  to compete effectively.
The difficulties of raising money may doom  many would-be presidential candidacies.
Gore will have what he needs,  as will Bush, Forbes and former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
But how many others will?
Finally, Tuesday delivered an indecisive  message about impeachment.
Close to two-thirds of voters nationwide  told exit pollsters that they intended to send no message about Clinton,  but they made it clear in response to other questions that they disliked  the House inquiry into the president's alleged misdeeds and wanted  to see it end.
In only two states, Kansas and Nebraska, did a majority  of voters say they favored even a congressional censure of Clinton,  a much milder form of punishment advocated by many Clinton backers.
Some Republicans said privately that there should be no hearings at  all in the Clinton matter, and some Democrats began talking about  a deal, the equivalent of a plea bargain that would bring the matter  to an early close.
Nevertheless, Republican members of the House Judiciary  Committee said they needed to press ahead with the Constitutional  process that the House has set in motion.
Among those taking that  view were Rep. Bob Barr of Georgia, a fierce foe of the president,  and Rep. Mary Bono of California, whose tone has been more muted.
But Rep. David Dreier of California, the incoming Rules Committee  chairman, said that ``the election has played a role in ensuring that  one of us has a desire to drag that out.''
This is what Newt Gingrich is supposed to do well.
The planning.
The  strategy.
The big picture.
The vision.
His vision brought the GOP  to the majority in Congress in 1994 and made him the first Republican  House Speaker in 40 years.
But by his own admission, Gingrich's vision  seems to have blurred this time around, costing Republicans a net  of five seats in Tuesday's election and leaving the party's narrow  governing majority even narrower.
The disappointing election results  also left Gingrich open to a fractious challenge for his post as speaker.
Members and aides said Wednesday that a fury at the speaker had bubbled  up overnight and that some members were trying to organize a slate  of candidates to replace Gingrich and his leadership team when House  Republicans convene on Nov. 18 to select their leaders for next year.
As Rep. Mark Sanford, R-S.C.
, put it, ``When a company's stock price  goes down, it's usually the CEO who gets fired.''
Top Republican aides,  speaking anonymously, were even blunter.
``People were very angry  last night,'' one aide said.
``Today it's a mixture of seething and  dismay.
It's just ugly.
And Newt knows it.
His career is on the line.''
Another aide said, ``Most people are really angry with Newt, and no  one knows what to do with it.
But some are dipping their toe in the  water and seeing what the temperature is.''
A possible slate could  contain the names of Reps. Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana to replace  Gingrich, Steve Largent of Oklahoma to replace Dick Armey of Texas  as majority leader, and Jennifer Dunn of Washington to replace John  A. Boehner of Ohio as conference chairman.
Rep. David M. McIntosh  of Indiana is also said to be considering a run for speaker, but it  was not clear whether he would be part of any slate.
Rep. Tom DeLay  of Texas, the majority whip, was said to be secure.
Armey bluntly  acknowledged the scramble going on in the wings to oust the leadership.
Told on ``Nightline'' that there were Republicans after his head,  Armey replied: ``They're welcome to it if they're big enough to take  it.''
Publicly, Gingrich has expressed confidence about keeping his  job as speaker.
But he has been grim-faced over the last 24 hours  and closeted himself Wednesday with his top strategists making calls  to shore up his support among members.
``He looks like the victim  of an accident,'' said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who supports Gingrich.
``He's very somber in tone.''
The question, as it always is with Gingrich,  is how many members are prepared to rebel against his leadership.
In the past, no more than a couple of dozen members have openly expressed  their dissatisfaction with him, and a coup attempt last year fizzled  for lack of support.
``I'm hoping more people will understand the  need for a serious reassessment this year,'' said Rep. Charles T.  Canady, R-Fla., who said he had hoped for a challenge to the speaker  after the 1996 elections, when the Republicans also lost seats.
``The  reality is this: Our majority keeps shrinking,'' Canady said.
``If  it shrinks any more, it will be gone.''
But Gingrich has built support  among moderates, and some perceived the election as a repudiation  of the conservatives.
Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert, R-Utah, said the  results showed that this was the right direction for the party.
``To  maintain our majority, we've got to moderate some of our views,''  Boehlert said.
Thomas Mann, a Congressional scholar at the Brookings  Institution, said that moderates supported Gingrich in part because  no appealing alternative had emerged.
``They know he sees the broader  world and is prepared to moderate if it makes sense,'' Mann said.
``Newt's gone out of his way to support the moderates.
He's nurtured  a relationship with them.''
But Mann and others said that anger has  been building at Gingrich for several reasons, including his signing  on to a budget deal last month that seemed to capitulate to President  Clinton, not offering a clear legislative agenda for Republicans and  not communicating a clear political message.
``We are most defined  by who we hate'' said Rep. Mark Souder, R-Ind.
``But voters are more  sophisticated than that, and Republicans better have something to  say about where we're going.''
The anger grew in the last few days  when the speaker approved a $10-million anti-Clinton advertising campaign  that allowed Democrats to turn the election into a referendum on Gingrich,  who has never been nearly as popular with the public as Clinton has  been.
As if only slowly absorbing the implications of the loss, the  speaker seemed unable at a news conference here Wednesday morning  to pinpoint why the party suffered a net drop of five seats in the  House.
As late as Tuesday afternoon, he was predicting a net pickup  of between 10 and 30.
``Until we look at it better, I frankly don't  understand all the things that happened yesterday,'' he said, ``and  I'm not sure anybody else in the country does either.''
But he said  Republicans should have ``maniacally focused'' on a basic message  of cutting taxes, saving Social Security and preventing drug abuse,  and campaigned aggressively on those themes.
He contrasted the lack  of focus this year with the Contract With America that proved so successful  in 1994.
``People thought we stood for something pretty big,'' he  said.
But Gingrich also seemed aware of the mounting concern about  his leadership, repeatedly casting the election results as a victory  for his leadership team because Republicans had stayed in the majority  for three elections in a row for the first time in 70 years.
He also  suggested that those who would challenge him have little support.
``The people who normally are quoted on this are people who would  in fact take the party to a narrower base,'' Gingrich said, referring  to the periodic eruptions of concern among conservatives about his  leadership.
``I'd like to see who it was that had a plan that they  were confident over the last 60 days would have been more successful  and why they didn't share it.''
Stunned by the Democratic resurgence in the mid-term elections, congressional  Republicans tore into each other Wednesday over who was to blame for  their failure to make the traditional opposition party gains in an  and a possibility  of congressional leadership challenges _ came as election results  showed that Republicans had been unable to increase their 55-45 hold  over the Senate and that Democrats had picked up five seats in the  House.
The Democratic surge marked the first time since 1934 that  the president's party had gained seats in a midterm election, and  it whittled the Republican House majority down to a mere six votes.
The Democratic victories were even more remarkable in a political  year marked by the months-long scandal over President Clinton's affair  with Monica Lewinsky.
The Republicans' new 223-211 majority (assuming  a Democrat leading in Oregon holds on to win), with one independent,  amounted to the smallest congressional majority since the Republican-controlled  Congress of 1953, the last time Republicans controlled the House until  they captured it again in 1994.
With attention now shifting to the  House Judiciary Committee and its impeachment inquiry, Rep. Henry  Hyde told fellow Republicans on the panel in a conference call Wednesday  that the only witness Republicans were likely to call would be the  independent counsel, Kenneth Starr.
Hyde, the chairman, told lawmakers  he hoped to have the committee vote on possible articles of impeachment  by Thanksgiving, an act that would take the issue out of his hands  and put it into Gingrich's.
Committee Democrats declined comment Wednesday  until they could discuss Hyde's plan among themselves.
Trying to put  the best face on the results, Speaker Newt Gingrich said in Marietta,  Ga., that the Republicans still held onto the House for three elections  in a row for the first time since the election of 1932.
But furious  rank and file Republicans burned up the phone lines to each other,  discussing whether to mount leadership challenges in both chambers  in the next few weeks.
``We've got to reach out and have more than  southern white males running the Washington Republican Party,'' said  Rep. Joe Scarborough, a conservative from Florida.
He said that Republicans  this year had been left without any accomplishments to run on.
``We  need an agenda first of all,'' he said.
``We went an entire calendar  year without an agenda.''
Rep. Chris Shays, a moderate from Connecticut  called the election a devastating loss and said simply, ``There are  going to be major changes in our leadership.
All segments of our party  want to see change.''
At the White House, Clinton called the election  results a vindication of his party's policies.
``If you look at all  the results,'' he said, ``they are clear and unambiguous.
The American  people want their business, their concerns, their children, their  families, their future addressed here.
That's what the messag e of  the election was.''
One of the first difficult questions now facing  Congress is how to proceed with the impeachment inquiry in the face  of public resistance to removing Clinton from office, and with a Republican  majority now so slim that it is almost certain that the 218 votes  required for impeachment cannot be assembled.
In a public statement  released Wednesday, Hyde said ``The Committee continues to have a  clear constituional duty to complete its work in a fair and expeditious  manner.
Our duty has not changed becasue the constitution has not  changed.''
But Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., said the election results  guaranteed that impeachment will fail.
``I think any serious effort  to remove President Clinton from office is effectively over,'' he  said.
``It is simply for Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott to decide on  an exit strategy.''
From the other side of the aisle, Rep. Rick Lazio,  a Long Island Republican, said, ``The inquiry should be wrapped up  expeditiously, fairly and it ought to be resolved in the immediate  future.''
For the past year, Republicans struggled to keep control  of the House with a 228-207 majority and to find consensus among their  party's competing factions.
With their numbers reduced, the Republican  leadership will need to carry out a tortuous balancing act to unite  a hard-core conservative faction that wants a more aggressive social  agenda with a bloc of moderates who want their party to return to  the center.
Any small Republican faction will now have enormous leverage.
The new arithmetic of the House may even lead to Democrats' and moderate  Republicans' forming ad hoc majorities on issues, taking control away  from Republican leaders.
Already seeing some of the possibilities,  Rep. Peter King of Long Island, N.Y., said northeastern Republicans  would be strengthened.
``It gives us much more leverage with the leadership  and makes it easier to protect New York,'' he said.
``It's going to  weaken the position of the strident conservatives and the anti-northeast  conservatives.''
Just two weeks ago, Gingrich had foreseen election  gains ranging from 10 seats to more than 40.
Seeming uncharacteristically  uncertain Wednesday, he said he had trouble accounting for the results.
``Things were happening out there that none of us fully understand--neither  party in my judgment,'' he said.
Taking his share of the blame for  his party's losses, the Georgia Republican said he had misjudged how  the public would recoil from the Clinton scandal as amplified in the  modern media world and how the scandal would drown out other Republican  themes.
``I mean I totally underestimated the degree to which people  would just get sick of 24-hour-a day talk television and talk radio  and then the degree to which this whole scandal became just sort of  disgusting by sheer repetition,'' he said.
``And as a result I think  we probably underestimated the need to really aggressively push a  much stronger message about cutting taxes and saving Social Security,  winning the war on drugs, reforming education and national defense.''
Majority Leader Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi also admitted mistakes,  saying his party had not presented a clear enough message in the final  96 hours of the campaign.
He also conceded that Congress' final scramble  to pass a $500 billion budget bill hurt his party.
``One of this lessons  for Republicans out of this is that we need to listen more carefully  to the people and we need to have a clear understanding and concise  message that we do apply across the nation,'' he said in Washington.
Both Lott and Gingrich said Republicans would put an emphasis next  year on tax-cutting and shoring up the Social Security system.
Even  as the two leaders spoke, their angry rank-and-file lawmakers were  making phone calls trying to assess whether to mount challenges against  the Republican leaders who have steered the Congress since the Republican's  assumed control four years ago.
One senior Republican staffer said  the House had become a ``tinderbox'' of intrigue.
Scarborough said,  ``The long distance charges in Washington offices probably are going  through the roof today.
Everybody's calling everybody.
Everybody recognizes  that something's terribly wrong with the direction of Washington Republicans  when Republican governors are doing so well in New York, Massachusetts,  Florida and Texas.''
And while Gingrich has not gone out of his way  to identify himself with the Republican campaign's last-minute ad  blitz attacking President Clinton, his caucus knows he is responsible.
Gingrich has faced down an uprising before, foiling a coup attempt  against him by disgruntled conservatives and some of his own leadership  team in the summer of 1997.
Any move to remove him remains a long-shot.
But with House leadership elections now set for mid-November, Republicans  said this time the dissatisfaction in their caucus had crossed ideological  lines to moderates like Shays as well.
``We got shellacked,'' said  Rep. Christopher Cannon, a conserative from Utah.
``We beat ourselves  because we had no agenda.''
Republicans were discussing possible challenges  to Gingrich, his second-in-command, Rep. Dick Armey, and other members  of the senior leadership team.
Some were envisioning trying to run  an entire new ticket headed by Rep. Bob Livingston, the Appropriations  Committee chairman from Louisiana and including Rep. Steve Largent,  an Oklahoma conservative.
Asked whether Tuesday's election results  could cost him the speakership, Gingrich said, ``I'm not particularly  concerned.''
Republicans close to him said they expected the anger  to dissipate.
In the Senate, where leadership races take place in  early December, some Republicans were talking of mounting challenges  against mid-level leadership figures.
Several senators expressed particular  pique toward the re-election chairman, Senator Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky, who poured party dollars and much of his own time into trying  to defeat the Democratic champion of campaign finance overhaul, Russell  Feingold of Wisconsin.
Feingold won in a close race.
Some lawmakers  on Wednesday approached Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to see if he  would replace McConnell.
Hagel confirmed he had talked to more than  eight senators, and was considering whether to challenge McConnell.
Hagel lambasted the Republican leadership for the election outcome.
``This is a big loss for us,'' he said.
``We squandered a very historic  opportunity last night.
To just break even is a loss.''
Most incumbents  coasted to victory Tuesday night.
But some will not be returning.
Five House Republicans were defeated: Vince Snowbarger of Kansas,  Bill Redmond of New Mexico, Jon Fox of Pennsylvania, Mike Pappas of  New Jersey, and Rick White of Washington.
One Democrat also lost his  re-election bid _ Rep. Jay Johnson of Wisconsin.
The new House members  include 17 Republicans and at least 22 Democrats.
David Wu, a Democrat  was leading Molly Bordonaro, a Republican in the race for one House  seat in Oregon, but the final victory announcement was not expected  until Friday after absentee ballots are counted.
Unlike the self-proclaimed  ``revolutionaries'' of the Republican class of 1994, many of the newly  elected members are career politicians who rose through the ranks  of local and state government.
Three of the Democrats are the sons  of former lawmakers, Mark Udall of Colorado, son of Morris Udall who  represented Arizona; Tom Udall of New Mexico, son of the other Udall  brother, Stewart, a former Congressman and Secretary of the Interior,  and Charlie Gonzalez, who o won the Texas seat of his father, Henry.
Stunned by the Democratic resurgence in the mid-term elections, congressional  Republicans tore into each other Wednesday over who was to blame for  their failure to make the traditional opposition party gains in an  and a possibility  of congressional leadership challenges _ came as election results  showed that Republicans had been unable to increase their 55-45 hold  over the Senate and that Democrats had picked up five seats in the  House.
The Democratic surge marked the first time since 1934 that  the president's party had gained seats in a midterm election, and  it whittled the Republican House majority down to a mere six votes.
The Democratic victories were even more remarkable in a political  year marked by the months-long scandal over President Clinton's affair  with Monica Lewinsky.
The Republicans' new 223-211 majority (assuming  a Democrat leading in Oregon holds on to win), with one independent,  amounted to the smallest congressional majority since the Republican-controlled  Congress of 1953, the last time Republicans controlled the House until  they captured it again in 1994.
With attention now shifting to the  House Judiciary Committee and its impeachment inquiry, Rep. Henry  Hyde told fellow Republicans on the panel in a conference call Wednesday  that the only witness Republicans were likely to call would be the  independent counsel, Kenneth Starr.
Hyde, the chairman, told lawmakers  he hoped to have the committee vote on possible articles of impeachment  by Thanksgiving, an act that would take the issue out of his hands  and put it into Gingrich's.
Committee Democrats declined comment Wednesday  until they could discuss Hyde's plan among themselves.
Trying to put  the best face on the results, Speaker Newt Gingrich said in Marietta,  Ga., that the Republicans still held onto the House for three elections  in a row for the first time since the election of 1932.
But furious  rank and file Republicans burned up the phone lines to each other,  discussing whether to mount leadership challenges in both chambers  in the next few weeks.
``We've got to reach out and have more than  southern white males running the Washington Republican Party,'' said  Rep. Joe Scarborough, a conservative from Florida.
He said that Republicans  this year had been left without any accomplishments to run on.
``We  need an agenda first of all,'' he said.
``We went an entire calendar  year without an agenda.''
Rep. Chris Shays, a moderate from Connecticut  called the election a devastating loss and said simply, ``There are  going to be major changes in our leadership.
All segments of our party  want to see change.''
At the White House, Clinton called the election  results a vindication of his party's policies.
``If you look at all  the results,'' he said, ``they are clear and unambiguous.
The American  people want their business, their concerns, their children, their  families, their future addressed here.
That's what the message of  the election was.''
One of the first difficult questions now facing  Congress is how to proceed with the impeachment inquiry in the face  of public resistance to removing Clinton from office, and with a Republican  majority now so slim that it is almost certain that the 218 votes  required for impeachment cannot be assembled.
In a public statement  released Wednesday, Hyde said ``The Committee continues to have a  clear constitutional duty to complete its work in a fair and expeditious  manner.
Our duty has not changed because the constitution has not  changed.''
But Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., said the election results  guaranteed that impeachment will fail.
``I think any serious effort  to remove President Clinton from office is effectively over,'' he  said.
``It is simply for Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott to decide on  an exit strategy.''
From the other side of the aisle, Rep. Rick Lazio,  a Long Island Republican, said, ``The inquiry should be wrapped up  expeditiously, fairly and it ought to be resolved in the immediate  future.''
For the past year, Republicans struggled to keep control  of the House with 228 seats and to find consensus among their party's  competing factions.
With their numbers reduced, the Republican leadership  will need to carry out a tortuous balancing act to unite a hard-core  conservative faction that wants a more aggressive social agenda with  a bloc of moderates who want their party to return to the center.
The Democrats held 206 seats, and one was held by an indepenndent.
Any small Republican faction will now have enormous leverage.
The  new arithmetic of the House may even lead to Democrats' and moderate  Republicans' forming ad hoc majorities on issues, taking control away  from Republican leaders.
Already seeing some of the possibilities,  Rep. Peter King of Long Island, N.Y., said northeastern Republicans  would be strengthened.
``It gives us much more leverage with the leadership  and makes it easier to protect New York,'' he said.
``It's going to  weaken the position of the strident conservatives and the anti-northeast  conservatives.''
Just two weeks ago, Gingrich had foreseen election  gains ranging from 10 seats to more than 40.
Seeming uncharacteristically  uncertain Wednesday, he said he had trouble accounting for the results.
``Things were happening out there that none of us fully understand--neither  party in my judgment,'' he said.
Taking his share of the blame for  his party's losses, the Georgia Republican said he had misjudged how  the public would recoil from the Clinton scandal as amplified in the  modern media world and how the scandal would drown out other Republican  themes.
``I mean I totally underestimated the degree to which people  would just get sick of 24-hour-a day talk television and talk radio  and then the degree to which this whole scandal became just sort of  disgusting by sheer repetition,'' he said.
``And as a result I think  we probably underestimated the need to really aggressively push a  much stronger message about cutting taxes and saving Social Security,  winning the war on drugs, reforming education and national defense.''
Majority Leader Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi also admitted mistakes,  saying his party had not presented a clear enough message in the final  96 hours of the campaign.
He also conceded that Congress' final scramble  to pass a $500 billion budget bill hurt his party.
``One of this lessons  for Republicans out of this is that we need to listen more carefully  to the people and we need to have a clear understanding and concise  message that we do apply across the nation,'' he said in Washington.
Both Lott and Gingrich said Republicans would put an emphasis next  year on tax-cutting and shoring up the Social Security system.
Even  as the two leaders spoke, their angry rank-and-file lawmakers were  making phone calls trying to assess whether to mount challenges against  the Republican leaders who have steered the Congress since the Republican's  assumed control four years ago.
One senior Republican staffer said  the House had become a ``tinderbox'' of intrigue.
Scarborough said,  ``The long distance charges in Washington offices probably are going  through the roof today.
Everybody's calling everybody.
Everybody recognizes  that something's terribly wrong with the direction of Washington Republicans  when Republican governors are doing so well in New York, Massachusetts,  Florida and Texas.''
And while Gingrich has not gone out of his way  to identify himself with the Republican campaign's last-minute ad  blitz attacking President Clinton, his caucus knows he is responsible.
Gingrich has faced down an uprising before, foiling a coup attempt  against him by disgruntled conservatives and some of his own leadership  team in the summer of 1997.
Any move to remove him remains a long-shot.
But with House leadership elections now set for mid-November, Republicans  said this time the dissatisfaction in their caucus had crossed ideological  lines to moderates like Shays as well.
``We got shellacked,'' said  Rep. Christopher Cannon, a conservative from Utah.
``We beat ourselves  because we had no agenda.''
Republicans were discussing possible challenges  to Gingrich, his second-in-command, Rep. Dick Armey, and other members  of the senior leadership team.
Some were envisioning trying to run  an entire new ticket headed by Rep. Bob Livingston, the Appropriations  Committee chairman from Louisiana and including Rep. Steve Largent,  an Oklahoma conservative.
Asked whether Tuesday's election results  could cost him the speakership, Gingrich said, ``I'm not particularly  concerned.''
Republicans close to him said they expected the anger  to dissipate.
In the Senate, where leadership races take place in  early December, some Republicans were talking of mounting challenges  against mid-level leadership figures.
Several senators expressed particular  pique toward the re-election chairman, Senator Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky, who poured party dollars and much of his own time into trying  to defeat the Democratic champion of campaign finance overhaul, Russell  Feingold of Wisconsin.
Feingold won in a close race.
Some lawmakers  on Wednesday approached Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to see if he  would replace McConnell.
Hagel confirmed he had talked to more than  eight senators, and was considering whether to challenge McConnell.
Hagel lambasted the Republican leadership for the election outcome.
``This is a big loss for us,'' he said.
``We squandered a very historic  opportunity last night.
To just break even is a loss.''
Most incumbents  coasted to victory Tuesday night.
But some will not be returning.
Five House Republicans were defeated: Vince Snowbarger of Kansas,  Bill Redmond of New Mexico, Jon Fox of Pennsylvania, Mike Pappas of  New Jersey, and Rick White of Washington.
One Democrat also lost his  re-election bid _ Rep. Jay Johnson of Wisconsin.
The new House members  include 17 Republicans and at least 22 Democrats.
David Wu, a Democrat  was leading Molly Bordonaro, a Republican in the race for one House  seat in Oregon, but the final victory announcement was not expected  until Friday after absentee ballots are counted.
Unlike the self-proclaimed  ``revolutionaries'' of the Republican class of 1994, many of the newly  elected members are career politicians who rose through the ranks  of local and state government.
Three of the Democrats are the sons  of former lawmakers, Mark Udall of Colorado, son of Morris Udall who  represented Arizona; Tom Udall of New Mexico, son of the other Udall  brother, Stewart, a former congressman and secretary of the Interior,  and Charlie Gonzalez, who won the Texas seat of his father, Henry.
Stunned by the Democratic resurgence in the mid-term elections, congressional  Republicans tore into each other Wednesday over who was to blame for  their failure to make the traditional opposition party gains in an  and a possibility  of congressional leadership challenges _ came as election results  showed that Republicans had been unable to increase their 55-45 hold  over the Senate and that Democrats had picked up five seats in the  House.
The Democratic surge marked the first time since 1934 that  the president's party had gained seats in a midterm election, and  it whittled the Republican House majority down to a mere six votes.
The Democratic victories were even more remarkable in a political  year marked by the months-long scandal over President Clinton's affair  with Monica Lewinsky.
The Republicans' new 223-211 majority (assuming  a Democrat leading in Oregon holds on to win), with one independent,  amounted to the smallest congressional majority since the Republican-controlled  Congress of 1953, the last time Republicans controlled the House until  they captured it again in 1994.
With attention now shifting to the  House Judiciary Committee and its impeachment inquiry, Rep. Henry  Hyde told fellow Republicans on the panel in a conference call Wednesday  that the only witness Republicans were likely to call would be the  independent counsel, Kenneth Starr.
Hyde, the chairman, told lawmakers  he hoped to have the committee vote on possible articles of impeachment  by Thanksgiving, an act that would take the issue out of his hands  and put it into Gingrich's.
Committee Democrats declined comment Wednesday  until they could discuss Hyde's plan among themselves.
Trying to put  the best face on the results, Speaker Newt Gingrich said in Marietta,  Ga., that the Republicans still held onto the House for three elections  in a row for the first time since the election of 1932.
But furious  rank and file Republicans burned up the phone lines to each other,  discussing whether to mount leadership challenges in both chambers  in the next few weeks.
``We've got to reach out and have more than  southern white males running the Washington Republican Party,'' said  Rep. Joe Scarborough, a conservative from Florida.
He said that Republicans  this year had been left without any accomplishments to run on.
``We  need an agenda first of all,'' he said.
``We went an entire calendar  year without an agenda.''
Rep. Chris Shays, a moderate from Connecticut  called the election a devastating loss and said simply, ``There are  going to be major changes in our leadership.
All segments of our party  want to see change.''
At the White House, Clinton called the election  results a vindication of his party's policies.
``If you look at all  the results,'' he said, ``they are clear and unambiguous.
The American  people want their business, their concerns, their children, their  families, their future addressed here.
That's what the message of  the election was.''
One of the first difficult questions now facing  Congress is how to proceed with the impeachment inquiry in the face  of public resistance to removing Clinton from office, and with a Republican  majority now so slim that it is almost certain that the 218 votes  required for impeachment cannot be assembled.
In a public statement  released Wednesday, Hyde said ``The Committee continues to have a  clear constitutional duty to complete its work in a fair and expeditious  manner.
Our duty has not changed because the constitution has not  changed.''
But Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., said the election results  guaranteed that impeachment will fail.
``I think any serious effort  to remove President Clinton from office is effectively over,'' he  said.
``It is simply for Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott to decide on  an exit strategy.''
From the other side of the aisle, Rep. Rick Lazio,  a Long Island Republican, said, ``The inquiry should be wrapped up  expeditiously, fairly and it ought to be resolved in the immediate  future.''
For the past year, Republicans struggled to keep control  of the House with 228 seats and to find consensus among their party's  competing factions.
With their numbers reduced, the Republican leadership  will need to carry out a tortuous balancing act to unite a hard-core  conservative faction that wants a more aggressive social agenda with  a bloc of moderates who want their party to return to the center.
The Democrats held 206 seats, and one was held by an indepenndent.
Any small Republican faction will now have enormous leverage.
The  new arithmetic of the House may even lead to Democrats' and moderate  Republicans' forming ad hoc majorities on issues, taking control away  from Republican leaders.
Already seeing some of the possibilities,  Rep. Peter King of Long Island, N.Y., said northeastern Republicans  would be strengthened.
``It gives us much more leverage with the leadership  and makes it easier to protect New York,'' he said.
``It's going to  weaken the position of the strident conservatives and the anti-northeast  conservatives.''
Just two weeks ago, Gingrich had foreseen election  gains ranging from 10 seats to more than 40.
Seeming uncharacteristically  uncertain Wednesday, he said he had trouble accounting for the results.
``Things were happening out there that none of us fully understand--neither  party in my judgment,'' he said.
Taking his share of the blame for  his party's losses, the Georgia Republican said he had misjudged how  the public would recoil from the Clinton scandal as amplified in the  modern media world and how the scandal would drown out other Republican  themes.
``I mean I totally underestimated the degree to which people  would just get sick of 24-hour-a day talk television and talk radio  and then the degree to which this whole scandal became just sort of  disgusting by sheer repetition,'' he said.
``And as a result I think  we probably underestimated the need to really aggressively push a  much stronger message about cutting taxes and saving Social Security,  winning the war on drugs, reforming education and national defense.''
Majority Leader Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi also admitted mistakes,  saying his party had not presented a clear enough message in the final  96 hours of the campaign.
He also conceded that Congress' final scramble  to pass a $500 billion budget bill hurt his party.
``One of this lessons  for Republicans out of this is that we need to listen more carefully  to the people and we need to have a clear understanding and concise  message that we do apply across the nation,'' he said in Washington.
Both Lott and Gingrich said Republicans would put an emphasis next  year on tax-cutting and shoring up the Social Security system.
Even  as the two leaders spoke, their angry rank-and-file lawmakers were  making phone calls trying to assess whether to mount challenges against  the Republican leaders who have steered the Congress since the Republican's  assumed control four years ago.
One senior Republican staffer said  the House had become a ``tinderbox'' of intrigue.
Scarborough said,  ``The long distance charges in Washington offices probably are going  through the roof today.
Everybody's calling everybody.
Everybody recognizes  that something's terribly wrong with the direction of Washington Republicans  when Republican governors are doing so well in New York, Massachusetts,  Florida and Texas.''
And while Gingrich has not gone out of his way  to identify himself with the Republican campaign's last-minute ad  blitz attacking President Clinton, his caucus knows he is responsible.
Gingrich has faced down an uprising before, foiling a coup attempt  against him by disgruntled conservatives and some of his own leadership  team in the summer of 1997.
Any move to remove him remains a long-shot.
But with House leadership elections now set for mid-November, Republicans  said this time the dissatisfaction in their caucus had crossed ideological  lines to moderates like Shays as well.
``We got shellacked,'' said  Rep. Christopher Cannon, a conservative from Utah.
``We beat ourselves  because we had no agenda.''
Republicans were discussing possible challenges  to Gingrich, his second-in-command, Rep. Dick Armey, and other members  of the senior leadership team.
Some were envisioning trying to run  an entire new ticket headed by Rep. Bob Livingston, the Appropriations  Committee chairman from Louisiana and including Rep. Steve Largent,  an Oklahoma conservative.
Asked whether Tuesday's election results  could cost him the speakership, Gingrich said, ``I'm not particularly  concerned.''
Republicans close to him said they expected the anger  to dissipate.
In the Senate, where leadership races take place in  early December, some Republicans were talking of mounting challenges  against mid-level leadership figures.
Several senators expressed particular  pique toward the re-election chairman, Senator Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky, who poured party dollars and much of his own time into trying  to defeat the Democratic champion of campaign finance overhaul, Russell  Feingold of Wisconsin.
Feingold won in a close race.
Some lawmakers  on Wednesday approached Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to see if he  would replace McConnell.
Hagel confirmed he had talked to more than  eight senators, and was considering whether to challenge McConnell.
Hagel lambasted the Republican leadership for the election outcome.
``This is a big loss for us,'' he said.
``We squandered a very historic  opportunity last night.
To just break even is a loss.''
Most incumbents  coasted to victory Tuesday night.
But some will not be returning.
Five House Republicans were defeated: Vince Snowbarger of Kansas,  Bill Redmond of New Mexico, Jon Fox of Pennsylvania, Mike Pappas of  New Jersey, and Rick White of Washington.
One Democrat also lost his  re-election bid _ Rep. Jay Johnson of Wisconsin.
The new House members  include 17 Republicans and at least 22 Democrats.
David Wu, a Democrat  was leading Molly Bordonaro, a Republican in the race for one House  seat in Oregon, but the final victory announcement was not expected  until Friday after absentee ballots are counted.
Unlike the self-proclaimed  ``revolutionaries'' of the Republican class of 1994, many of the newly  elected members are career politicians who rose through the ranks  of local and state government.
Three of the Democrats are the sons  of former lawmakers, Mark Udall of Colorado, son of Morris Udall who  represented Arizona; Tom Udall of New Mexico, son of the other Udall  brother, Stewart, a former congressman and secretary of the Interior,  and Charlie Gonzalez, who won the Texas seat of his father, Henry.
An intense struggle for control of the House is underway, with Rep.  Bob Livingston conducting a telephone campaign to replace Rep. Newt  Gingrich as speaker and Gingrich fighting with a counter-campaign  that has given some members pause about ousting him.
At the same time,  a small band of Republicans vowed on Thursday that they would not  vote to re-elect Gingrich under any circumstances, a move that, because  of the Republicans' shrunken House majority, could tie the party in  knots for months because it could throw the speakership to a Democrat.
Rep. Matt Salmon, R-Ariz., said: ``I personally have made the decision  that I cannot vote for Newt Gingrich for speaker in January, and there  are six others who have told me they feel the same way, seven people  who just will not, and it takes six to deadlock the vote.''
Fury at  the speaker has boiled over since Tuesday's elections, when Republicans  suffered a net loss of five seats in the House.
They blamed Gingrich,  the party's chief strategist.
But many were already angry at him for  what they said was his failure to articulate a clear message for the  party going into the elections and for a messy budget process that  gave President Clinton a political edge and contradicted Republican  principles of fiscal conservativism by containing massive amounts  of pork spending.
House Republicans are to meet Nov. 18 to vote by  secret ballot for their leaders.
Whoever wins the party's nomination  for speaker then stands for election by the full House in January.
Even if Gingrich wins the secret ballot, he could be denied re-election  as speaker in January if Salmon and at least five others refuse to  vote for him.
Because the Republicans now control the House by only  12 seats, it would take just six votes against Gingrich to deny him  a majority and allow Democrats to potentially elect one of their own  as speaker.
With such a chaotic and unacceptable prospect looming,  Livingston told Gingrich that he should step aside for the good of  the party, according to Republican officials.
The officials said that  Livingston spoke to Gingrich shortly after the disastrous election  returns but also before the election, reflecting Livingston's earlier  displeasure with the speaker over the budget process.
Several Republicans  said that both Livingston, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee  and one of the few members with the stature to stand for speaker,  and Gingrich were working the phones on Thursday in a struggle for  votes.
Livingston has said nothing publicly about a challenge to Gingrich,  but several members and aides said on Thursday that he would announce  his intentions, possibly as soon as Friday, after he had determined  if he could win.
``He won't do it 'til he has his ducks in a row,  and right now a lot of people are still loyal to the speaker,'' said  an aide to a Republican who, like many others, is trying to straddle  the line between fealty to a speaker who may retain power and encouragement  to a challenger who offers a salve to an embattled party.
A struggle for control of the House is under way, with Rep. Robert  Livingston conducting a telephone campaign that could lead to him  running against Newt Gingrich as speaker.
But Gingrich's counter-campaign  has given some members pause about ousting him.
At the same time,  a small band of Republicans vowed on Thursday that they would not  vote to re-elect Gingrich under any circumstances, a move that, because  of the Republicans' shrunken House majority, could tie the party in  knots for months.
Rep. Matt Salmon, R-Ariz., said: ``I personally  have made the decision that I cannot vote for Newt Gingrich for speaker  in January, and there are six others who have told me they feel the  same way, seven people who just will not, and it takes six to deadlock  the vote.''
Fury at the speaker has boiled over since Tuesday's elections,  when Republicans suffered a net loss of five seats in the House.
They  blamed Gingrich, the party's chief strategist.
But many were already  angry at him for what they said was his failure to articulate a clear  message for the party going into the elections and for a messy budget  process that gave President Clinton a political edge and contradicted  Republican principles of fiscal conservativism by containing massive  amounts of spending for local projects.
House Republicans are to meet  Nov. 18 to vote by secret ballot for their leaders.
Whoever wins the  Republican nomination for speaker must stand for election by the full  House in January.
Even if Gingrich wins the secret ballot, he could  be denied re-election as speaker in January if Salmon and at least  five others refuse to vote for him.
Because the Republicans now control  the House by only 12 seats, it would take just six votes against Gingrich  to deny him a majority.
With such a chaotic and unacceptable prospect  looming, Livingston told Gingrich that he should step aside for the  good of the party, Republican officials said.
The officials said that  Livingston spoke to Gingrich shortly after the election returns but  also before the election, reflecting Livingston's earlier displeasure  with the speaker over the budget process.
Several Republicans said  that both Livingston, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee  and one of the few members with the stature to stand for speaker,  and Gingrich were working the phones on Thursday in a struggle for  votes.
Livingston has said nothing publicly about a challenge to Gingrich,  but several members and aides said on Thursday that he would announce  his intentions, possibly as soon as Friday, only after he had determined  if he could win.
Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., was one of several members  who spoke with Livingston on Thursday.
``He told me he's making a  number of phone calls, that he's gotten a very positive response about  running for speaker, and he'll decide within the next 48 hours,''  King said.
``He won't do it till he has his ducks in a row, and right  now a lot of people are still loyal to the speaker,'' said an aide  to a Republican who, like many others, is trying to straddle the line  between fealty to a speaker who may retain power and encouragement  to a challenger who offers a salve to an embattled party.
Many Republicans  immediately blamed Gingrich for the party's losses on Tuesday.
Talk  quickly emerged the next day of a slate of candidates to oppose Gingrich  and his lieutenants.
The list of possible candidates for leadership  positions included Rep.e Steve Largent of Oklahoma, who talked with  Livingston on Thursday about challenging Gingrich, Republican officials  said, speaking on the condition that their names not be reported.
Those officials said that Largent told Livingston that he wanted to  run with him on a ticket and that he would challenge Rep. Dick Armey,  the majority leader.
But, these officials said that if Livingston  did not challenge Gingrich, Largent would run for speaker instead.
Other names were floated Wednesday for leadership posts.
They included  Reps. David McIntosh of Indiana for speaker and Jennifer Dunn of Washington  as conference chairman.
Added to the mix on Thursday was the name  of Rep. Christopher Cox, a California conservative.
As a sign of the  uncertainty prevailing among House members on Thursday, Rep. Henry  Hyde, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and one of the House's  most venerable members, rebuffed a chance to endorse Gingrich as speaker.
Hyde said that Gingrich bore responsibility for the party's losses  Tuesday.
``Leadership takes credit when things go right,'' he said.
``They ought to take the blame when things go wrong.''
Asked if Gingrich  should remain speaker, Hyde said: ``I rather think he will, but that  remains to be seen.''
The energy that many vented publicly on Wednesday  as anger toward Gingrich seemed devoted on Thursday to intense internal  political calculations about whether Livingston could succeed in toppling  Gingrich and whether he should succeed.
While many support him as  a veteran who understands the House and has shown shrewd political  skills in managing the massive federal budget, others are reviving  images of the Louisianan as a hot-head who gave the party a bad name  during the government shutdown two years ago and who tends toward  arm-flailing in heated moments.
One conservative leader said that  he and his allies had reservations about Livingston because he was  ``obsessed'' about trying to keep social issues out of the budget  process.
The budget, he said, ``has been a vehicle for conservatives  over the years to add restrictions on federal money for abortion and  other things you can't get through the Senate or past a presidential  veto.
If Livingston is the challenger, I doubt that will cause a rallying  of the real conservatives in Congress.''
Some moderates said they  were prepared to support him.
Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J., said, ``I  would be amenable to Livingston.''
Still, she cautioned, ``I'm not  after Newt.
But it's wrong not to sit down and seriously look at our  options.''
Ken Johnson, an aide to Rep. W.J. (Billy) Tauzin, R-La.,  said that his boss was ``emblematic'' of the confusion among the broad  base of House Republicans.
``Billy has been loyal to both Speaker  Gingrich and Dick Armey, and he's still loyal to them, but he also  wants to hear what they have to say before committing to them in the  next election,'' Johnson said.
``Everyone is asking the same question:  Can we refocus the message and re-energize our base without re-aligning  the leadership?''
Salmon said his refusal to support Gingrich no matter  what was based on Gingrich's track record of ``one failed strategy  after another,'' including the impeachment process and the pork-laden  budget.
With the challenge under way, Gingrich has been trying to  show members that he is responsive to their concerns.
After an election  night in which he portrayed the Republicans as victorious even as  they lost seats, the next day he took ``responsibility'' for the losses.
In another move, Gingrich has indicated that he is willing to cede  control over the party's congressional campaign committee, allowing  the whole House to select its members.
Gingrich is also making strong  personal appeals to Republicans.
Said one top House aide: ``He'll  get support.
How much?
Only his own vote-counters know.''
Just four years ago, it was a good bet that Newt Gingrich would be  the pivotal figure in U.S. politics at the turn of the millennium.
Seemingly overnight he had taken a moribund minority party and turned  it into a pumped-up, issue-driven House majority.
With a promise to  balance the budget, end welfare and represent more conservative social  values, he appeared to have rearranged the political map for Congress  just as Ronald Reagan had done for the presidency.
But Gingrich's  leadership is now so shaky that even if he maintains his hold on the  speaker's office, he is in danger of marginalization.
A change this  dramatic suggests something far more profound than a miscalculation  about election tactics.
What looked like one of the major realignments  in U.S. political history might turn out to have been nothing but  a temporary shift.
The Gingrich revolution was fueled by anger, a  revolt of white working-class Americans against what they perceived  as a Democratic bias in favor of blacks and other minorities, and  a middle-class rejection of the politics of big government and big  deficits.
They were the same resentments that Ronald Reagan had exploited  so successfully.
But old political habits and a moribund Republican  leadership allowed the Democrats to retain control of Congress throughout  the 1980s, and turned Reagan's economic program into an undisciplined  tax-cutting spree that created prosperity along with huge budget gaps.
Gingrich's attention-grabbing rhetoric, energy and talent for political  organization finally took Reagan's formula for success to the congressional  elections in 1994.
But once in power, he ran head on into Bill Clinton,  whose political instincts were even better.
The president co-opted  parts of the Contract With America, particularly the balanced budget  and welfare reform.
He adapted the Republican social message into  a call for things like school uniforms and television rating systems,  which symbolized more responsibility and parental control without  supporting government intrusion into private lives.
The Republican  right's genuine contempt for Clinton was based in part on the well-known  flaws in the president's character.
But it was mainly a reaction to  the ease with which he had diverted what was supposed to be the flood  tide of their revolution.
They expected that the genuine successes  of Gingrich's first year in office would lead to still larger victories  for minimal government and taxes, unfettered free enterprise and a  return to conservative Christian values.
But the public was happy  to be led in another direction, and focus on the concerns of aging  baby boomers about health care and Social Security.
The government  that was seen as the enemy when the issues were budgetary once again  looked like a potential ally.
Back in 1994, both parties were so stunned  by the sudden change in their congressional fortunes that they may  have overestimated what it all meant.
In particular they may not have  realized how quickly good economic times, a drop in crime and national  welfare reform could blunt the power of race in U.S. politics.
The  Democrats had become literally a minority party as white voters resentfully  identified their policies with cities, blacks and immigrants.
But  last week union workers and Catholics returned to the Democratic fold.
Without race as a wedge issue, the solid black Democratic vote became  a powerful advantage in key states.
Blacks, women and Latinos angry  at Republican anti-immigration initiatives were the winning coalition  in California, North Carolina and New York.
The speaker was right  to say this was ``not the election we expected.''
There may indeed  be a Republican majority in America, but it appears to resemble the  pro-business,  wary of debt and with an inherent distaste for bringing up messy social  issues like abortion.
The Republicans who have begun talking about  ``compassionate conservatism'' and ``the politics of inclusion'' may  be peddling political mush, but they peddled it to victory on Tuesday.
The congressional Republican Party's long sojourn in the wilderness  of the House minority may have left it too accustomed to opposition  to figure out what it can be for, and too attached to the politics  of anger to make sense of a nation in the mood for moderation.
Gingrich  has suggested that his mistake was to let the Republicans drift along  on the politics of impeachment when they should have been ``almost  maniacally focused'' on things like tax cuts.
But looking maniacal  is what got them into trouble in the first place.
Winning control  of Congress after so many years was very tough for Gingrich in 1994.
But it will be ten times tougher to forge a politics that does not  depend on rage.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who orchestrated the Republican revolution  of recent years and is overseeing the impeachment inquiry into President  Clinton, was driven from office Friday by a party that swiftly turned  on him after its unexpected losses in Tuesday's midterm elections.
Catching virtually everyone on Capitol Hill by surprise, Gingrich  announced Friday night in two conference calls to other Republicans  that he would not seek re-election as Speaker in the Nov. 18 vote  and would leave Congress altogether when his term expires in January.
``This will give us a chance to purge some of the poison that is in  the system,'' Gingrich said, according to a party aide who listened  to one of the calls.
Gingrich's resignation was a stunning reversal  for one of the most combative and personally confrontational politicians  in America.
He made his name a decade ago by bringing down one Democratic  speaker, Jim Wright, and continued his assaultive style through Tuesday's  elections with last-minute commercials reminding voters of the Clinton  scandal.
His reflexive pugilistic response was evident even Friday  night.
In his second conference call, according to several people  who listened, Gingrich blamed House conservatives for his downfall.
Although it was their revolutionary zeal he harnessed to take control  of Congress in 1994, they have become his most bitter critics in the  last two years of his tumultuous speakership.
Friday night he called  them cannibals who had ``blackmailed'' him into quitting.
Rep. Michael  P. Forbes, R-N.Y., said: ``Newt said all those who had marginalized  the Republican Party had engaged in cannibalism.
He said, `Refer to  the clips.'
He's blaming others.''
Another Republican described the  conference call this way: ``He started off very statesmanlike, but  then you could see the anger building.
When someone asked him why  he was leaving, he said, `A handful of members have blackmailed the  conference.'
He said, `They're hateful.'
And he said, `They're cannibals.'''
Gingrich announced his move just hours after Rep. Robert L. Livingston  of Louisiana announced he was running for speaker, putting himself  forward as a pragmatist and a manager.
After the Gingrich calls, Rep.  Bill Archer of Texas announced he was considering his own run for  speaker.
Livingston and Archer are chairmen of the two most powerful  committees in the House.
In a statement Gingrich said, ``The Republican  conference needs to be unified, and it is time for me to move forward.''
He said he hoped his colleagues would pick a successor ``who can both  reconcile and discipline, who can work together and communicate effectively.''
Referring to his wife, he told his colleagues he was resigning from  Congress because ``Marianne and I are tired.
We need time off to get  to know each other again.''
He also acknowledged his own knack for  bringing negative attention to himself and his party.
``If I stay,''  he told his colleagues Friday night, ``my controversial nature would  overshadow any successes we might have,'' an understatement to those  who recalled his suggestion two years ago that he forced a shutdown  of the government because he was miffed about having to sit in the  back of Air Force One on a trip with President Clinton.
According  to another Republican who took notes, Gingrich said of his resignation:  ``There is a lot of bitterness amongst some of the members.
So long  as I am around, I will always be a target in the news media, which  would mean we would never be able to get our message out.''
Clinton  said: ``Newt Gingrich has been a worthy adversary leading the Republican  Party to a majority in the House and joining me in a great national  debate over how best to prepare America for the 21st century.
Despite  our profound differences, I appreciate those times we were able to  work together in the national interest, especially Speaker Gingrich's  strong support for America's continuing leadership for freedom, peace  and prosperity in the world.''
Many Republicans took the opportunity  to portray Gingrich as a visionary.
Rep. Sherwood Boehlert of New  York said that during the first conference call, ``there was shock  and surprise and strong expressions of appreciation for leading us  to the Promised Land.''
His supporters said Gingrich had the votes  to win the election to nominate a speaker, which is to be conducted  by secret ballot.
But, they agreed, the party's slim, six-vote majority  meant every vote would be a battle.
Kenneth Duberstein, a former official  in the Reagan administration, said, ``I have no doubt he had the votes  to be speaker, but I'm not sure he had the votes to govern.''
He said  that because of the deep rifts in the party, Gingrich would not have  been able to implement his plans.
In an unusually biting reaction,  Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader, said he hoped  that Gingrich's resignation would clear the fierce partisan air that  he had fostered.
``I hope that whoever succeeds Newt Gingrich as speaker  will immediately begin the process of repairing the damage that was  wrought on this institution over the last four years,'' Gephardt said.
House Republicans predicted that Gingrich's resignation would set  off a more wide-ranging and hectic scramble to replace him than had  been anticipated.
``There will be a lot of pretenders to the throne  who will test the waters,'' said Boehlert, who had supported Gingrich  for re-election as speaker.
``There won't be any shortage of candidates.''
As the U.S. government pressed its antitrust case against Microsoft Corp. in November 1998, America Online (AOL) proposed an alliance with Netscape Communications and Sun Microsystems.
The three-pronged deal promised to provide on-line services, Internet software and electronic commerce.
AOL was to buy Netscape and forge a partnership with Sun, benefiting all three and giving technological independence from Microsoft.
Microsoft lawyers argued unconvincingly that AOL's purchase of Netscape would undermine the government's antitrust case, based in large part on Netscape's complaint.
It remained to be seen whether AOL could achieve a vast virtual mall.
As the government continued to press its anti-trust suit against Microsoft, AOL has begun negotiations to purchase Netscape.
Netscape is at the heart of the antitrust suit.
Netscape alleges that Microsoft marketing practices, packaging its Internet Explorer in its operating system denied market opportunities to Netscape.
The AOL deal, a three-way negotiation between AOL, Sun Microsystems and Netscape, would combined three Microsoft rivals.
AOL is counting on the Netscape purchase to allow it to expand its internet Market by helping business operate on the internet in an effort to join Media and technology.
America Online became the leading force in cyberspace for individuals to exchange e-mail and check the latest news.
AOL saw a bright day ahead as a company that could provide online services, Internet software, and electronic commerce.
To position itself better in this growing market, AOL sought to buy Netscape and work an alliance with Sun Microsystems.
Netscape has faltered because of the ubiquity of the Microsoft Windows operating system requiring its browser.
Microsoft argued that a vibrant technology market and rising stock prices undercut antitrust charges against it.
At the trial the government presented thousands of e-mails supporting its case.
In a bid to become a leader in the lucrative cyberspace economy, AOL will buy Netscape and set up a partnership with Sun.
The venture will let AOL offer corporations end-to-end services, including servers, software, and accessibility to consumers.
Eventually, AOL hopes to capitalize on the production of cheap devices offering Internet access to more homes.
News of the deal helped push the Dow Jones to a new high.
Meanwhile, Microsoft, accused by the Justice Department of using its operating system dominance to squelch competition in the browser market, claims the deal shows the software industry is healthy and that Netscape needs no government protection.
The outcome of the Microsoft antitrust case may be a long way off,  but one thing is already clear: This is the first major e-mail trial.
The government's prosecution and Microsoft Corp.'s defense, to a striking  degree, are legal campaigns waged with electronic messages.
The human  testimony often pales next to the e-mail evidence.
On the stand or  in videotaped testimony, the people being questioned shrug, mumble  and forget.
The e-mail is alive with ideas and competitive zeal, punctuated  with profanity and exclamation points.
The second week of the trial  ended with the prosecutors being frustrated because a lengthy cross-examination  by Microsoft's lead lawyer left no time for the government to show  several hours of a videotaped deposition of Bill Gates, the Microsoft  chairman.
With a new witness, an executive of Apple Computer Inc.,  taking the stand Monday, it is uncertain when the Gates tape will  be played.
The Justice Department and the 20 states suing Microsoft  believe that the tape will strengthen their case because it shows  Gates saying he was not involved in plans to take what the government  alleges were illegal steps to stifle competition in the Internet software  market.
The Gates videotape, said David Boies, the Justice Department's  trial lawyer, offers an ``opportunity to judge Gates' credibility.''
But the Gates credibility gap, if there is one, becomes an issue not  because of the videotape but because his taped remarks can be compared  and contrasted with the e-mail he wrote and received.
The e-mail record,  the government insists, shows Gates waist-deep in plotting the anti-competitive  deals and bullying tactics that he denies or professes to have never  heard of in his taped deposition.
If his machinations are central  to the government's case, why not summon Gates to the trial?
``The  government does not need to put Gates on the stand, because we have  his e-mail and memoranda,'' Stephen Houck, a lawyer for the states,  told the court.
The Microsoft legal team has for months been preparing  its e-mail defense.
First, Microsoft argues, anything that looks damaging  is taken out of context.
``I urge your honor,'' John Warden, Microsoft's  lead lawyer, told Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, ``to view with considerable  skepticism the crazy quilt of e-mail fragments that seem to form the  core of the government's case.''
But Microsoft has also mounted an  e-mail counterattack, culled from the millions of messages it obtained  by subpoena from competitors in pretrial discovery.
Warden's cross-examination  ritual is to present a government witness with an internal e-mail  from his company and then pose a declaration as a question.
These  interrogations have two refrains: Isn't it true your company does  exactly what you are accusing Microsoft of doing, and isn't it true  that Microsoft prevailed not because it is a predatory monopolist  but because of its superior technology?
Microsoft is accused of trying  to prod companies to stay out of its way.
So last week, for example,  Warden produced e-mail from Stephen Case, the chairman of America  Online, suggesting a partnership with Netscape Communications Corp.
in which both companies would focus on their respective strengths.
That division of labor, Case wrote, would be the best way to achieve  the goal that Marc Andreessen, Netscape's cofounder, described in  an earlier e-mail as beating ``the Beast From Redmond that wants to  a reference to Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond,  Wash.
Printouts of e-mail are just another form of written communication.
By the 1920s, as typewriters became common, typed memoranda started  to be used in court cases.
From the 1950s through the 1980s, legal  experts say, there was an explosion of documentation fueled by the  new technologies of electric typewriters, photocopying and fax machines,  and then personal computers.
And e-mail, they add, has played an important  role in legal inquiries for years, like the Iran-contra case in the  1980s when e-mail found in Oliver North's computer proved crucial.
But the Microsoft case is the result of a sweeping government antitrust  investigation of a high-technology company where e-mail has supplanted  the telephone as the most common instrument of communication.
``E-mail  has just revolutionized investigations of this kind,'' one senior  Justice Department official said.
While under investigation, Microsoft  has handed over to the government an estimated 30 million documents,  mostly e-mail.
In the trial, the two sides have submitted about 3,000  exhibits, mainly e-mail.
And in their e-mail, people often communicate  more frankly and informally than when writing a letter or a report  _ tap it out, punch a button and it's gone into cyberspace.
But e-mail  communication is documentary evidence, which in legal cases provides  a rich, contemporaneous record of what people were thinking and planning  at the time.
It can be a sharp contrast to formal oral testimony,  so often coached by lawyers and crafted by selective memory.
``The  e-mail record certainly makes the I-don't-recall line of response  harder to sustain,'' said Robert Litan, a former senior official in  the Justice Department's antitrust division who is now at the Brookings  Institution.
It can also be powerful ammunition for pointing to contradictions  in testimony.
And that is what the government will do in attacking  Gates' credibility with his videotaped deposition, taken over three  days in August.
The government offered a glimpse of that strategy  on the first day of the trial.
It showed a few brief clips of a point  in the deposition when Gates was asked about a meeting on June 21,  1995, at which, the government alleges, Microsoft offered to divide  the browser market with Netscape and to make an investment in the  company, which is its chief rival in that market.
In the taped deposition,  Gates says he recalled being asked by one of his subordinates whether  he thought it made sense to invest in Netscape.
He said that he was  asked about it after the June 1995 meeting and replied, ``I didn't  see that as something that made sense.''
But in an e-mail on May 31,  1995, Gates urged an alliance with Netscape.
``We could even pay them  money as part of the deal,'' he wrote, ``buying a piece of them or  something.''
The contradiction between Gates' deposition and his e-mail,  though, does not of itself speak to the issue of whether Microsoft  made an illegal offer to Netscape.
To be sure, it is what Microsoft  did _ not what it said in e-mail communications _ that counts most.
``But once the e-mail that looks bad gets in the record, you end up  doing what Microsoft's lawyers are going to spend much of this trial  doing _ trying to explain it away,'' said Stephen Axinn, a leading  antitrust litigator with the firm Axinn, Veltrop &AMP; Harkrider in  New York.
America Online is on the verge of agreeing to purchase Netscape Communications  Corp., the Internet pioneer at the center of the government's antitrust  suit against Microsoft Corp., executives involved in the talks said  Sunday.
The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving  AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc.
AOL, the leading on-line service  with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular  site on the World Wide Web and its software business.
But as part  of the deal, AOL would also enter into a joint marketing and development  partnership with Sun Microsystems to strengthen Netscape's other business  of selling to large corporations the heavy-duty software needed to  serve up Web pages and other Internet technologies to many thousands  of users at the same time.
The purchase, an exchange of AOL shares  for Netscape stock, is valued at roughly $4 billion.
A completed deal  could be announced as soon as Monday morning.
But executives involved  in the talks cautioned Sunday night that some details remained to  be negotiated.
The Netscape deal, if consummated, would realign three  on-line services,  Internet software and electronic commerce.
It would strengthen two  of Microsoft's leading rivals, AOL and Sun Microsystems.
At the same  time, however, it would subsume Netscape, an Internet software maker  once regarded as the most serious challenger to Microsoft's dominance  of the personal computer software market.
Netscape, founded in 1994,  has struggled over the last 18 months under an assault from Microsoft.
Its Navigator was the runaway leader in the market for the browser  software used to navigate the World Wide Web.
But Microsoft, responding  to the Internet revolution, entered the market aggressively, quickly  matching the quality of Netscape's technology and then bundling the  Microsoft browser, Internet Explorer, into its industry-standard Windows  operating system and giving it away free.
Earlier this year, Netscape  announced layoffs and started distributing Navigator for free as well,  as Microsoft steadily gained in the browser market.
Since then, Netscape  has focused mainly on two businesses _ advertising and transaction  fees from its Netcenter Web site and selling industrial-strength software  to corporations that are building their own Internet sites on which  to conduct electronic commerce.
AOL believes it has the expertise  to increase revenues from Netscape's Web site and, helped by Sun's  programmers and vast corporate sales force, to accelerate Netscape's  software sales as well, executives involved in the negotiations said.
Sun's version of Unix, Solaris, is among the most popular operating  systems for the large, powerful computers that run Netscape's server  software.
``This deal would insure that the fundamental elements of  Netscape survive within bigger companies that can drive its technologies  forward,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard business  school and co-author with Michael A. Cusumano of the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology of a recent book, ``Competing on Internet  Time: Lessons from Netscape and Its Battle with Microsoft.''
The impact  of the deal, if any, on the government's antitrust suit against Microsoft  is uncertain.
It does appear to support a key theme of Microsoft's  defense _ namely, that it operates in a fast-moving industry where  corporate alliances shift all the time.
Thus, Microsoft argues, antitrust  policy should tread gently.
But the deal, government officials insist,  should have no direct effect on the current case.
``No matter how  much the alliances shift, it doesn't affect the central fact of Microsoft's  monopoly and how it has used and abused its market power to protect  its monopoly,'' said David Boies, the Justice Department's lead trial  lawyer in the Microsoft case.
Executives representing Netscape, AOL  and Sun Microsystems are government witnesses at the Microsoft trial.
And the serious merger talks between Netscape Chief Executive Officer  James Barksdale and AOL Chairman Steve Case began about a month ago,  or just after the start of the Microsoft trial, according to people  close to the talks.
Industry analysts suggest that the companies may  have been emboldened to take stronger anti-Microsoft steps based partly  on the perception that the antitrust case would weaken Microsoft.
And representatives of Kleiner Perkins Caufield &AMP; Byers, a Silicon  Valley venture capital firm regarded as a power broker among Microsoft's  rivals, sit on the boards of Netscape, Sun and AOL.
America Online is on the verge of agreeing to purchase Netscape Communications  Corp., the Internet pioneer at the center of the government's antitrust  suit against Microsoft Corp., executives involved in the talks said  Sunday.
The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving  AOL, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc.
AOL, the leading on-line service  with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular  site on the World Wide Web and its software business.
AOL would also  enter into a joint marketing and development partnership with Sun  Microsystems to strengthen Netscape's other business of selling to  large corporations the heavy-duty software needed to serve up Web  pages and other Internet technologies to many thousands of users at  the same time.
The purchase, an exchange of AOL shares for Netscape  stock, is valued at roughly $4 billion.
A completed deal could be  announced as soon as Monday morning.
But executives involved in the  talks cautioned Sunday night that some details remained to be negotiated.
The Netscape deal, if consummated, would realign three businesses  on-line services, Internet  software and electronic commerce.
It would strengthen two of Microsoft's  leading rivals, AOL and Sun Microsystems.
At the same time, however,  it would end the independent existence of Netscape, an Internet software  maker once regarded as the most serious challenger to Microsoft's  dominance of the personal computer software market.
Netscape, founded  in 1994, has struggled over the last 18 months under an assault from  Microsoft.
Its Navigator was the runaway leader in the market for  the browser software used to navigate the World Wide Web.
But Microsoft,  responding to the Internet revolution, entered the market aggressively,  quickly matching the quality of Netscape's technology and then bundling  the Microsoft browser, Internet Explorer, into its industry-standard  Windows operating system and giving it away free.
Eventually, Microsoft's  browser technology caught up to Netscape's.
Earlier this year, Netscape  announced layoffs and started distributing Navigator for free as well,  as Microsoft steadily gained in the browser market.
Since then, Netscape  has focused mainly on two businesses _ advertising and transaction  fees from its Netcenter Web site and selling industrial-strength software  to corporations that are building their own Internet sites on which  to conduct electronic commerce.
AOL believes it has the expertise  to increase revenues from Netscape's Web site and, helped by Sun's  programmers and vast corporate sales force, to accelerate Netscape's  software sales as well, executives involved in the negotiations said.
Among large corporations, Sun's version of Unix, Solaris, is among  the most popular operating systems for the powerful computers that  run Netscape's server software.
The much smaller Netscape would be  placed under the wing of AOL and Sun Microsystems.
The three companies  had combined revenues of more than $12.4 billion last year.
Microsoft,  by comparison, had revenues of more than $14 billion.
``This deal  would insure that the fundamental elements of Netscape survive within  bigger companies that can drive its technologies forward,'' said David  B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard business school and co-author  with Michael A. Cusumano of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  of a recent book, ``Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape  and Its Battle with Microsoft.''
The impact of the deal, if any, on  the government's antitrust suit against Microsoft is uncertain.
It  does appear to support a key theme of Microsoft's defense _ namely,  that it operates in a fast-moving industry where corporate alliances  shift all the time.
Thus, Microsoft argues, antitrust policy should  tread gently.
But the deal, government officials insist, should have  no direct effect on the current case.
``No matter how much the alliances  shift, it doesn't affect the central fact of Microsoft's monopoly  and how it has used and abused its market power to protect its monopoly,''  said David Boies, the Justice Department's lead trial lawyer in the  Microsoft case.
Executives representing Netscape, AOL and Sun Microsystems  are government witnesses at the Microsoft trial.
And the serious merger  talks between Netscape Chief Executive Officer James Barksdale and  AOL Chairman Steve Case began about a month ago, or just after the  start of the Microsoft trial, according to people close to the talks.
Industry analysts suggest that the companies may have been emboldened  to take stronger anti-Microsoft steps based partly on the perception  that the antitrust case would weaken Microsoft.
And representatives  of Kleiner Perkins Caufield &AMP; Byers, a Silicon Valley venture  capital firm regarded as a power broker among Microsoft's rivals,  sit on the boards of Netscape, Sun and AOL.
Still, executives involved  in the talks said that the timing of the proposed deal was unrelated  to the antitrust trial.
Nor should it, one person noted, be regarded  as ``a single-minded attempt to circle the wagons against Microsoft.''
Indeed, AOL, according to one person close to the talks, plans to  keep Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser as the default choice on  its on-line service.
One of the government's allegations in the antitrust  suit is that Microsoft won out over Netscape as the main browser for  AOL because Microsoft used its Windows monopoly as a bargaining chip.
To win the browser deal, Microsoft offered AOL prime real estate on  the Windows desktop, the main screen on more than 90 percent of personal  computers sold today.
Staying with Microsoft's browser can be seen  as proof that AOL still regards placement on the Windows desktop as  crucial, as well as a careful step to avoid undermining one of the  allegations in the government's case.
For AOL, the Netscape purchase  would accelerate its evolution toward the Internet.
At present, its  flagship on-line service is a hybrid _ to its own proprietary service,  it has added a gateway to the World Wide Web.
In addition, for consumers  who do not subscribe to AOL's dial-up service, it also has its own  Web site, aol.com, which attracts about 24 million visitors a month,  according to Media Metrix/Relevant Knowledge, a market research firm.
Its big Web site offers a wide range of information, entertainment,  Internet chat and e-mail, a leading example of the all-in-one sites  that have become known as portals.
Netscape's Netcenter traffic has  slipped a bit in recent months, to under 16 million visitors a month,  but it, too, is a major portal.
Together, they should be a huge player  in the intensifying portal battle for viewers and resulting advertising  revenues.
Yahoo is the current leader among portal sites with more  than 25 million monthly visitors, while Microsoft's site attracts  more than 20 million a month.
Though known as a new-media company  for consumers, AOL is also interested in boosting its electronic commerce  business with the Netscape purchase.
AOL has recently done work with  Eastman Kodak, American Greetings and other companies, not only promoting  their products to on-line subscribers but also building the Internet  infrastructure of software to conduct electronic commerce.
AOL notes  projections like a recent one from Forrester Research Inc., which  predicted that worldwide Internet commerce could reach as high as  $3.2 trillion by 2003, or 5 percent of global sales.
Sun Microsystems,  analysts say, could be a strong partner for AOL in the market for  Internet commerce software.
Sun is a corporate software company with  a sales force of several thousand.
As it moves increasingly to Internet  technology, AOL should prove an excellent partner for Sun in terms  of developing and using Sun's Java, an Internet programming language.
And while Netscape's browser no longer generates revenue on its own,  it is a distribution channel for Java technology.
Having Netscape's  browser safely in the hands of a friendly company is of strategic  importance for Sun, since Microsoft owns the alternative in the browser  market.
AOL is expected pay little, if any, premium over Netscape's  stock price on Friday, executives close to the deal said, since Netscape  shares have more than doubled in the last month.
In the last week  alone, Netscape's stock has jumped about $12, or nearly 45 percent,  following reports that it was discussing a possible partnership with  AOL.
The stock closed Friday at $39.1875, up $2.625.
AOL's shares  gained $1.50 Friday, closing at $84.875.
America Online Inc. wants to become the ``next Microsoft'' in two  promising information-age fields where Microsoft Corp. is just another  the Internet media business and electronic commerce.
With  its proposed purchase of Netscape Communications Corp., AOL, the nation's  largest dial-up online service with more than 14 million subscribers,  hopes to take a significant step toward that ambitious goal.
If the  $4 billion deal is completed _ the companies had not reached a final  agreement as of Monday night _ AOL would acquire a leading Internet  brand and enlarge its wired audience by absorbing the millions who  regularly visit Netscape's popular NetCenter site on the World Wide  Web.
``Acquiring Netscape would really enhance America Online's role  as the premier Internet media company,'' said James F. Moore, president  of Geopartners Inc., a consulting firm.
``America Online is assembling  the kind of audience numbers that will convince people the Internet  is becoming a mainstream media.''
In the new media business, as in  traditional media like television or newspapers, eyeballs translate  into advertising revenue.
But what really intrigues media executives  and consumer marketers about the new media _ news, entertainment and  services rendered in computer code _ is that it is inherently a two-way  medium with which people can interact with the tap of a key or the  click of a mouse button The interaction that advertisers and marketers  want to see, of course, is buying.
And it is the potential for exploiting  an instant, direct connection to consumers that has fueled all the  recent optimism about electronic commerce.
Today, companies are selling  everything from books to baby clothes over the Internet.
Most companies  have not progressed beyond the experimentation stage, but there are  a handful of encouraging success stories like Amazon.com, the on-line  bookstore.
By 2003, Forrester Research Inc., whose business is analyzing  trends in cyberspace, projects that Internet commerce could reach  $3.2 trillion, or 5 percent of all sales worldwide.
AOL is at the  forefront of this convergence of media and commerce converge, and  integration reflected in the lineage of its leaders.
Steve Case, the  chairman, was once a new-product manager for Pepsico's Pizza Hut chain,  while Robert Pittman, the president, is a former MTV executive.
Microsoft  is also investing heavily in new media and electronic commerce.
It  has an online service, MSN, which competes with AOL, as well as information-and  commerce Web sites that focus on travel, cars and real estate.
It  also owns Sidewalk, a network of local sites that list movies, restaurants  and stores in cities around the country including Seattle and New  York.
Its MSNBC Internet news service is half of a joint venture with  NBC.
Microsoft is expected to be a formidable competitor in the media-and-commerce  business.
It has no shortage of bright people and it has more money  than any rival.
Besides deep pockets, Microsoft has the built-in advantage  in any computer-based medium because its Windows operating system  runs more than 90 percent of personal computers sold today.
Its control  of the Windows desktop gives it the most valuable piece of commercial  real estate in the information age.
In theory, at least, owning that  desktop screen should help Microsoft steer consumers to its online  offerings _ an issue that is key to the government's antitrust suit  against Microsoft.
But so far, Microsoft has started slowly in the  fields of Internet media and electronic commerce.
``Microsoft may  want to, but it does not dominate these new markets,'' said Richard  Shaffer, a principal of Technologic Partners, a research firm.
``America  Online recognizes that the big opportunity is in these emerging growth  businesses like electronic commerce instead of trying to take Microsoft  on head-on.''
Still, if the Netscape deal is completed, AOL will also  find itself in the software business in a way it has never been in  the past.
Netscape is known as the pioneer in the commercial development  of software used to navigate the World Wide Web.
Microsoft saw the  browser software as a direct threat to its industry dominance and  pursued that market aggressively, bundling its own browser with its  Windows and giving it away free _ tactics that have been challenged  by the government.
But Netscape no longer generates revenues from  its browser, which it now also distributes for free, but from the  sale of heavy-duty software sold to corporations.
Much of this software  is used as the technological ``back office'' for electronic commerce  _ used in building Web sites and processing transactions.
A surprising  element in the proposed deal is that AOL intends to hold onto Netscape's  corporate software business instead of selling it off to an established  software company.
``America Online just doesn't have credibility in  that market,'' observed Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
Executives close  to AOL explain the decision as the need to provide full-line offerings  for electronic commerce, from corporate Web site to the computer screens  of consumers.
But AOL has decided it needs help to preserve and strengthen  Netscape's corporate software business.
To do that, it has brought  in Sun Microsystems Inc. in a side deal, which has complicated the  transaction considerably.
AOL, according to executives close to the  proposed deal, will own Netscape, but it will have a joint marketing  and development partnership with Sun.
As part of the deal, AOL will  agree to purchase about $300 million worth of Sun's computers for  its service, while Sun will apparently agree to purchase sizeable  amounts of Netscape software, which Sun's sales force must sell.
Still,  AOL and Sun have a longer-term objective as well _ one that promises  to place them in more direct conflict with Microsoft.
For nearly a  year, William J. Raduchel, Sun's chief strategist, has been working  closely with AOL, according to Sun executives.
A former Harvard economics  professor who taught Scott McNealy, the Sun chairman, Raduchel has  focused on Sun's Internet programming technologies, called Java and  Jini, both of which are seen as potential threats to Microsoft's dominance.
By combining Sun's technology prowess with AOL's powerful consumer  brand, the Sun executives say, there is the potential for a kind end-run  around Microsoft's grip on desktop computing.
In its research laboratories,  Sun has been working on a stripped-down network computer _ a simple-to-use  information appliance, which could cost as little as $200 or be given  away as part of a subscription service.
The concept is that AOL's  Internet media and electronic commerce services could be delivered  to many more homes than today because many people still shun the expense  and difficulty of using a personal computer.
The appliance would be  mainly a receiver and screen, with most of the computing power residing  on vast central computers serving up information as users request  by tapping a few buttons.
Sun's technological specialty is this kind  of centralized ``network'' computing.
If the long-term AOL-Sun vision  ever materialized _ certainly a three-to-five year bet, at the least  _ it could give both companies a boost and technological independence  from Microsoft.
Stock prices vaulted to record levels Monday, furthering a recovery  that as recently as two months ago seemed nearly unthinkable.
``I  thought we were in the most serious correction since 1990, but I never  thought or wrote that the bull market was over,'' said Byron Wien,  U.S. equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter &AMP; Co. ``Now  it seems all of that is behind us.''
The Dow Jones industrial average  rose 214.72 points, or 2.34 percent, to 9,374.27.
The record is the  first since July 17, when the Dow closed at 9,337.97.
Since Aug. 31,  when the Dow stood at 7,539.07 after a steep slide, the blue-chip  gauge has risen more than 24 percent.
For the year, the Dow is up  18.54 percent and has a chance of rising more than 20 percent for  a fourth consecutive year, something never accomplished before.
Broader  averages also climbed.
The Standard &AMP; Poor's 500-stock index set  a record, rising 24.66 points, or 2.12 percent, to 1,188.21.
The Nasdaq  composite index did not reach a new high but posted the biggest percentage  gain Monday, rising 49.21 points, or 2.55 percent, to 1,977.42.
And  the Russell 2000 index of smaller-company issues gained 3.86 points,  or nearly 1 percent, to 398.15.
Monday's action was energized by a  daily record for the number of mergers and acquisitions valued at  $1 billion or more.
The merger announcements not only prompted investors  to change estimates of how much companies were worth but also indicated  coming declines in the outstanding shares of stock.
``This may be  a supply-demand story, where demand for stocks is rising and the supply  of stock is reduced as one company after another merges,'' said Hugh  Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. ``The flow  of money into mutual funds is fairly strong, and there is pressure  on managers to put that money to work.''
Two deals seemed to be catalysts  for broad swaths of stocks.
News that Bankers Trust may be close to  accepting an $8.9 billion offer from Deutsche Bank of Germany heightened  interest in financial-services and bank stocks.
And word that America  Online may acquire Netscape Communications for $4 billion in stock  powered Internet and other technology stocks to even loftier valuations.
Among financial companies, J.P. Morgan gained 6 1/16, to 115 11/16.
American Express was up 4 3/8, to 108 15/16.
Merrill Lynch jumped  4 3/8, to 76.
And Donaldson, Lufkin &AMP; Jenrette rose 3 9/16, to  42}.
Netscape was the most active stock Monday, gaining 2}, to 41  15/16.
America Online gained 4 3/8, to 89\.
Other Internet stocks  also surged, and analysts said the group, which has seen meteoric  gains in recent weeks, was ripe for a steep correction.
Yahoo and  Amazon.com both became $200 stocks on Monday.
Yahoo rose 30 7/16,  to 221 7/16.
And Amazon.com gained 37 3/8, to 218.
``The performance  of the Internet stocks is an unsettling sign,'' Wien said.
Still,  more-established technology shares also had a very good day.
IBM rose  7, to 166 5/8.
Microsoft jumped 5 9/16, to 119 3/16.
And Intel closed  at 113 9/16, up 1{.
After Monday's big price moves, Wien said that  according to his calculations, stocks were about 10 percent overvalued.
By contrast, in the middle of July the market was 20 percent overvalued,  he said.
Nonetheless, the market's recovery, which has been buttressed  by three cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board, has  left many longtime Wall Street hands grasping for historical parallels.
``At this point we are in new ground,'' said Laszlo Birinyi, who heads  his own market research firm.
``At the beginning of the year, I said  my target for the Dow was 10,000 by the end of 1998.
If anyone had  asked when the market went through what now looks like a corrective  blip, I would have said my new target would have been about 9,000.
I am surprised the 10,000 figure came back on the table'' for this  year.
Microsoft Corp. argued in federal court Monday that the proposed acquisition  of Netscape Communications Corp. by America Online seriously undermined  the government's antitrust suit against the software giant.
``From  a legal standpoint, this proposed deal pulls the rug out from under  the government,'' William Neukom, Microsoft's senior vice president  for legal affairs, said Monday morning on the courthouse steps.
The  reasoning behind this assertion, Microsoft says, is that the proposed  deal demonstrates that Netscape and the larger software industry are  even with all of the illegal and anti-competitive  practices alleged in the government's suit.
But David Boies, the government's  lead attorney, said all of that was irrelevant.
``Whatever the deal  ends up being _ if there ends up being a deal _ is not going to remove  any of the obstacles that Microsoft has placed in the path of competition  in this industry,'' he said.
Michael Lacovara, a Microsoft lawyer  who was questioning a government witness, economist Frederick Warren-Boulton,  suggested to him during the trial Monday that the proposed acquisition  undermined Warren-Boulton's argument, that Microsoft seems headed  toward obtaining a monopoly in Internet browser software to match  the one it apparently holds in operating systems.
After all, about  22 percent of Americans who use the Internet reach it through America  Online.
And at present AOL uses Microsoft's Web browser, Internet  Explorer, as the service's default choice.
In exchange for that, Microsoft  places an AOL advertisement and Internet link in Windows 98.
Lacovara  asked the witness whether, once AOL's service contract expires in  January, he would ``expect AOL to continue to distribute Microsoft  software.''
Yes, Warren-Boulton responded.
``It is not at all clear  to me that AOL's incentive to do this is changed by this proposed  merger with Netscape.''
He noted that America Online officials had  said their need to be among the online services featured in Windows  forced them to accept Microsoft terms _ establishing Internet Explorer  as the default choice.
Lacovara then asked Warren-Boulton the question  that lay under his entire cross-examination of the witness _ and Microsoft's  larger assertion Monday about the proposed Netscape-AOL deal.
``Surely  this combination,'' he asked, ``tells you something about the nature  of competition in the software industry?''
Warren-Boulton's answer  was probably not the one Lacovara had been after.
``To the extent  that this potential merger is the result of Microsoft's actions with  these exclusive contracts and other actions,'' he said, ``it is unfortunate  to see the disappearance of a firm like Netscape, the brightest, newest  star.''
Warren-Boulton's purpose on the stand for the government is  to establish that Microsoft does have a monopoly in operating-system  software; more than 90 percent of the world's computers use a Microsoft  operating system.
That is the foundation under most of the government's  case since federal antitrust law forbids certain behavior by a monopolist  that would be legal for a firm that faces healthy competition.
Through  repeated, often circumlocutious questioning, Lacovara tried to make  the case that Microsoft's overwhelming market share was ephemeral.
The software industry is so vibrant and fast moving, he suggested,  that Microsoft could be toppled from its position at any moment _  a point of view the company encourages among its employees.
On Friday  and Monday, Lacovara repeatedly pointed out that other companies are  placing other operating systems on the market, and some software companies  _ principally Microsoft's greatest rivals _ are writing software for  these new systems.
But Warren-Boulton argued that ``the existence  of these fringe competitors in the operating system market does not  mean in any way that Microsoft does not have monopoly power.''
On  Monday afternoon, Lacovara made an issue of the success Apple Computer  Co. is having selling its new iMac computer.
He entered into evidence  an Apple news release issued last month showing, among other things,  that 12.5 percent of the people buying Apple's new iMac computer had  previously owned a Windows machine.
Apple computers use a different  operating system, Mac-OS.
Envisioning a thoroughly networked world in which the World Wide Web  is a limitless marketplace of information, entertainment, products  and services, America Online Inc.
Tuesday laid out the details of  its agreement to buy the Netscape Communications Corporation for $4.2  billion.
By moving quickly toward what both companies have recently  come to see as the inevitable convergence of technology and media,  America Online hopes that it will secure a solid lead in a battle  already joined by giants like the Microsoft Corp. and the International  Business Machines Corp. to transform the greater part of cyberspace  into a vast virtual mall.
Part of that vision rests on an alliance  with Sun Microsystems that America Online negotiated as part of the  deal.
Sun not only brings a cyber-savvy sales force to the effort  but, even more importantly, a strong technology partner in developing  Netscape's industrial-strength software for running Internet sites.
Sun is indeed a technology heavyweight.
It owns the Java programming  language specially designed for Internet applications, and Solaris,  among the most popular commercial operating systems for the powerful  computers that big corporations use to serve up Internet services  like the World Wide Web, e-mail and retail transactions.
It also manufactures  a highly respected line of powerful computers based on its own microprocessor  and for the big Internet players against  which it will compete _ the real potential gold mine lies further  down the road, perhaps five years away, when people will venture on  line for information or shopping not only from personal computers  but from inexpensive Internet appliances costing $200 each, or maybe  included free as part of a subscription service, just as some cellular  phones are now.
Today, being wired remains a comparatively elitist  activity _ an estimated 25 percent of American households had access  to the Internet last year, and 5 percent of households bought merchandise  on line.
But the executives at America Online and Netscape hope that  their deal will accelerate the timetable for the day when the Net  is ubiquitous, when people will tap into the World Wide Web from appliance-like  devices, pagers, cell phones, television set-top boxes or computers  as routinely as they use the telephone today.
``A new generation of  Internet devices to be able to deliver our service anywhere is a key  part of what this deal is about in the long run,'' said Stephen M.  Case, 40, the chairman of America Online.
For the present, however,  the idea is to make America Online, the nation's leading online service,  the standard way to get onto the Internet, the executives explained.
Netscape, the Internet pioneer, is a crucial part of that effort,  they said.
There is no assurance that this vision of the technological  future will prove accurate or, even if it does, that the America Online-Netscape  combination will lead the way.
Still, the long-range game plan helps  explain what brought America Online and Netscape together.
And the  ability of the companies' executives to sell that vision to Netscape's  whiz-kid programmers in particular will determine whether the merger  succeeds.
Netscape's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., is likely  become a prime target for Silicon Valley headhunters.
As is the case  with any software company, Netscape's key asset is its talented programmers,  and many of these code hackers may be reluctant to work for America  Online, which still has a reputation as a middle-brow service catering  to online newcomers, known derisively as ``newbies.''
Stock options  and other financial incentives will be tailored to try to keep Netscape  employees on board.
``But these people want to change the world, and  we've got to be clear that joining with America Online, along with  the Sun component, really is a bigger opportunity for us,'' said Marc  Andreessen, the 26-year-old cofounder of Netscape who led a team of  young programmers from the supercomputing center at the University  of Illinois to Silicon Valley to start the Internet software company  in 1994.
``This ought to be the preeminent Internet company over the  next decade,'' Andreessen declared, speaking from a cell phone on  a streetcorner in Palo Alto, Calif.
For his part, Andreessen, a Netscape  executive vice president, will become Netscape's chief technology  officer for the next three or four months, until the merger is completed.
His new job at America Online has not yet been determined, but it  is likely to be chief technology officer of the combined company as  well, an America Online executive said.
Already, according to one  Netscape board member, Andreessen has delivered a 12-page single-spaced  memorandum to Case, setting out his view of the technological road  map the new company should follow into the future, emphasizing the  opportunities for electronic commerce in an environment in which most  people are linked to the Internet.
Netscape, populated with computing  sophisticates, and America Online, known as an on-ramp to the Internet  for the technologically challenged, seem a corporate odd couple.
But  the two companies, its executives explained, had been evolving toward  each other for more than a year.
In a telephone interview from America  Online's headquarters in Dulles, Va., Case described Netscape as an  enterprise that had ``morphed itself'' from a company dependent on  sales of its software used to browse the World Wide Web _ and ``in  Microsoft's cross-hairs'' _ into a business that relied on advertising  and other revenues from its popular Netcenter Web site and from selling  software to corporations to handle electronic commerce.
The Netscape  transformation was largely a reaction to Microsoft's competitive assault  on its browser business _ a central element in the government's antitrust  suit against Microsoft.
Microsoft bundled its browser into its industry-standard  Windows operating system, and gave away the browser for free.
The  government alleges these steps were part of a pattern of anticompetitive  practices, while Microsoft maintains the moves were intended mainly  to benefit consumers.
Early this year, after laying off workers and  suffering a large loss last year, Netscape announced that it would  also distribute its browser for free.
It seems to have stabilized  its business around its new model.
Netscape announced Tuesday that  it earned $2.7 million on revenues of $162 million in its fourth fiscal  quarter, which ended in September.
Yet America Online has also changed  in the last couple of years, moving well beyond its reputation as  an online service for beginners.
It now has an Internet chat service  and runs its own all-in-one site on the Web, known as a ``portal,''  which includes e-mail, Internet searching, news, entertainment and  online shopping.
``America Online has really changed from a closed  online service for novice users to an Internet media and technology  company with a diverse set of brands,'' Andreessen said.
``These two  companies have been moving in the same direction, and the fit is a  good one.''
The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, Nov. 25: America  Online's effort to acquire Netscape and set up a partnership with  Sun Microsystems is a reminder of how rapidly the corporate landscape  can change in fast-moving technical fields.
But it does not lessen  the need for the Justice Department to vigorously pursue its antitrust  suit against Microsoft, the dominant player in software.
The department  has presented solid evidence that Microsoft has used its monopoly  in operating systems to muscle rivals and partners so as to head off  competition in other software realms.
The Internet has risen so quickly  as an information medium that only four years ago, in his book ``The  Road Ahead,'' Bill Gates scarcely mentions it.
In addition, only a  couple of years ago America Online, the world's biggest online service,  was having so much trouble getting rid of the bugs in the system it  was widely derided as ``America On Hold.''
Now Microsoft has moved  so aggressively into the Internet that the Justice Department is accusing  it of predatory behavior, and America Online has rocketed forward  to make deals with other Internet players.
In its antitrust suit against  Microsoft, the federal government charges that the company has illegally  bundled its own browser with its Windows operating system to smother  Netscape's chances of marketing its browser.
Now in the corridors  outside the antitrust trial Microsoft's lawyers maintain that Netscape  has found a new partner in America Online and has no need of protection  from the government.
But it could be as easily argued that Microsoft  has bludgeoned Netscape into dissolution, forcing a distress sale  to America Online.
Nor is it clear that customers of America Online  will choose Netscape's browser as a vehicle for buying and selling  on the Internet.
Even in its newly musclebound form, America Online  remains dependent on Microsoft's good will for favorable placement  of an AOL icon on the main desktop screen.
It may be that, years hence,  America Online, Netscape and Sun will put together an alternative  means to the Internet through telephone lines, cables or the like.
But until that day, fairness requires Justice Department action to  insure that Microsoft not use its current position to thwart consumer  choice.
Only when companies know they can get their products to the  consumer will they have the incentive to innovate and turn the Internet  into the revolutionary medium it promises to be.
America Online built itself into the most potent force in cyberspace  largely by appealing to families with chatty teen-agers who want to  flirt online and adults looking for an easy way to send electronic  mail while checking the weather and sports scores.
Now, the company  has to get serious if it is to win the hearts and minds of corporate  executives in pin-stripe suits.
Nearly lost in the complexity of America  Online's deal to buy Netscape Communication Corp. is America Online's  announcement that it will enter an entirely new market: working behind  the computer screen to help companies open and operate online stores.
Netscape already has created software that made it a player in providing  support for what is already known as electronic commerce.
But America  Online now says it has ambitions to offer a much wider array of software,  consulting and services for online merchants.
``Most companies that  sell to consumers realize that they need to get into the e-commerce  space,'' said America Online president Robert Pittman in a news conference  Tuesday.
``We see a major business in offering them an end-to-end  solution.''
The market is big and growing bigger by the day.
Forrester  Research estimates that $325 million will be spent this year on electronic  commerce software and another $5.3 billion on services that range  from graphic design to the turn-key operation of entire online stores.
By 2002, Forrester estimates, the combined market for electronic commerce  services and software should top $35 billion.
``E-commerce services  are the silver bullet that will enable companies to be able to take  advantage of the true business opportunities on the Web,'' said Traci  Gere, an analyst at International Data Corp. ``The market is growing  very rapidly, but it is very fragmented.''
Analysts say the leader  today in e-commerce services is IBM, which has a full line of offerings  from sophisticated software products to hand-holding consulting.
Other  competitors include well-known information technology consulting companies  such as Andersen Consulting, the spin-off from the Arthur Andersen  accounting firm; Electronic Data Systems, which runs computer systems  for big companies, and PricewaterhouseCoopers, which offers accounting  and consulting separately but under one umbrella.
Software companies  like Microsoft and Netscape sell packaged programs, typically with  little or no consulting to help customers use them.
There are also  plenty of new companies that have sprouted up to provide electronic  commerce services.
Some, like Agency.Com and Organic Online, started  basically as advertising and design firms.
Others, including U S Web  and Viant, have emphasized programming and consulting.
In fact, those  two strains are blurring together, as exemplified by U S Web's pending  merger with CKS Group.
America Online argues that its advantage in  this increasingly crowded bazaar is its ability to combine a broad  subscriber base of about 15 million customers with Netscape software,  plus hardware from Sun Microsystems, which has joined in America Online's  venture into electronic commerce engineering.
``This is the first  time anyone has put a true end-to-end solution that starts with the  silicon and ends with the audience,'' said Barry Schuler, America  Online's president for interactive services.
``We start with Sun's  line of servers, then the commerce tools to build a store, the support  services to process orders and then a deal for online real estate  that can drive the traffic.''
Despite the advantages Netscape and  Sun bring, analysts say that America Online faces a variety of problems  in its new quest.
Chief among them is whether it can appear to have  the consistency, focus and follow-through that corporate customers  demand.
``AOL is not the first company that comes to my mind when  it comes to business-quality software,'' said Robert Chatham, a senior  analyst with Forrester Research.
Its decision to keep Netscape as  a separate unit and offer electronic commerce services in partnership  with Sun will not enhance its credibility, Chatham said.
``America  Online doesn't look like a homogenous vendor,'' he added.
``It looks  like customers will have to tangle with a menage a trois of AOL, Netscape  and Sun.''
Nor have Internet service providers and other telecommunications-oriented  companies shown much evidence, Ms. Gere of International Data said,  that they are capable of offering the highly specific customized services  that big corporate clients demand.
``Telecommunications companies  that try to do things efficiently for a large number of customers  have not been able to offer customized one-to-one relationships,''  she said.
Pittman said that America Online had been driven to the  e-commerce business because companies that approached it wanting to  sell their goods needed more help than simply advertising online.
``We are finding people who are expert in running bricks-and-mortar  stores are limited by their infrastructure,'' he said.
``They have  an online store, but their square footage is too small.''
Even before  the Netscape deal, America Online was moving to provide some electronic  commerce software and services.
It has been rewriting the software  that lets companies open online stores to be based on universally  accepted Internet standards rather than the specific computer language  used only on America Online.
This new software, which now will be  combined with Netscape's online store services, will be available  for companies to use both on America Online and on the Internet.
Similarly,  it has developed a service that lets users create a file with their  credit card numbers and shipping address so they can make online purchases  without retyping all that information each time.
America Online is  to stores on the broader Internet.
There is a wide range of services that are incorporated in electronic  commerce.
These include high-end strategy consulting to help companies  decide whether and how to sell online without hurting their traditional  sale in stores.
There are all sorts of computer systems to be developed,  ranging from the online stores themselves to connecting those sites  to a company's existing inventory and accounting systems.
There are  creative services that include graphic design, media buying, customer  list analysis and other marketing and promotional efforts.
And there  are operational services that involve actually maintaining the big  servers that users connect to when they use the online stores that  display catalogs, take orders and process payments.
America Online,  Schuler said, will emphasize services that relate to marketing rather  than back-office functions.
``We will consult on how to merchandise  and sell online,'' he said.
``We understand the consumer piece of  the puzzle.''
Some competitors worry that America Online's electronic  commerce services may simply be a device to sell its software and  hardware.
``The challenge is to prove that clients are getting the  best possible solution for their business,'' said Robert Gett, the  chief executive of Viant.
``If they offer AOL and Netscape and Sun,  their answer is a bit tainted.''
Netscape does have an expanding force  of about 700 people who provide consulting and custom programming.
But they have been most competitive, Gett said, in competing for nuts-and-bolts  projects rather than the more lucrative assignments to develop and  carry out a full-fledged strategy on the Web.
``They say, `Who knows  our software better than Netscape?'''
Gett said.
``We help customers  decide which platform is best for them.''
But America Online argues  that the combined might of it, Netscape and Sun is just what the business  needs.
``We always believed that commerce, that is buying goods and  services, is the huge revenue stream of the future,'' Schuler said.
``We have only seen the tiniest tip of the iceberg.''
America Online built itself into the most potent force in cyberspace  largely by appealing to families with chatty teen-agers who want to  flirt online and adults looking for an easy way to send electronic  mail while checking the weather and sports scores.
Now, the company  has to get serious if it is to win the hearts and minds of corporate  executives in pin-stripe suits.
Nearly lost in the complexity of America  Online's deal to buy Netscape Communication Corp. is America Online's  announcement that it will enter an entirely new market: working behind  the computer screen to help companies open and operate online stores.
Netscape already has created software that made it a player in providing  support for what is already known as electronic commerce.
But America  Online now says it has ambitions to offer a much wider array of software,  consulting and services for online merchants.
``Most companies that  sell to consumers realize that they need to get into the e-commerce  space,'' said America Online president Robert Pittman in a news conference  Tuesday.
``We see a major business in offering them an end-to-end  solution.''
The market is big and growing bigger by the day.
Forrester  Research estimates that $325 million will be spent this year on electronic  commerce software and another $5.3 billion on services that range  from graphic design to the turn-key operation of entire online stores.
By 2002, Forrester estimates, the combined market for electronic commerce  services and software should top $35 billion.
``E-commerce services  are the silver bullet that will enable companies to be able to take  advantage of the true business opportunities on the Web,'' said Traci  Gere, an analyst at International Data Corp. ``The market is growing  very rapidly, but it is very fragmented.''
Analysts say the leader  today in e-commerce services is IBM, which has a full line of offerings  from sophisticated software products to hand-holding consulting.
Other  competitors include well-known information technology consulting companies  such as Andersen Consulting, the spin-off from the Arthur Andersen  accounting firm; Electronic Data Systems, which runs computer systems  for big companies, and PricewaterhouseCoopers, which offers accounting  and consulting separately but under one umbrella.
Software companies  like Microsoft and Netscape sell packaged programs, typically with  little or no consulting to help customers use them.
There are also  plenty of new companies that have sprouted up to provide electronic  commerce services.
Some, like Agency.Com and Organic Online, started  basically as advertising and design firms.
Others, including U S Web  and Viant, have emphasized programming and consulting.
In fact, those  two strains are blurring together, as exemplified by U S Web's pending  merger with CKS Group.
America Online argues that its advantage in  this increasingly crowded bazaar is its ability to combine a broad  subscriber base of about 15 million customers with Netscape software,  plus hardware from Sun Microsystems, which has joined in America Online's  venture into electronic commerce engineering.
``This is the first  time anyone has put a true end-to-end solution that starts with the  silicon and ends with the audience,'' said Barry Schuler, America  Online's president for interactive services.
``We start with Sun's  line of servers, then the commerce tools to build a store, the support  services to process orders and then a deal for online real estate  that can drive the traffic.''
Despite the advantages Netscape and  Sun bring, analysts say that America Online faces a variety of problems  in its new quest.
Chief among them is whether it can appear to have  the consistency, focus and follow-through that corporate customers  demand.
``AOL is not the first company that comes to my mind when  it comes to business-quality software,'' said Robert Chatham, a senior  analyst with Forrester Research.
Its decision to keep Netscape as  a separate unit and offer electronic commerce services in partnership  with Sun will not enhance its credibility, Chatham said.
``America  Online doesn't look like a homogenous vendor,'' he added.
``It looks  like customers will have to tangle with a menage a trois of AOL, Netscape  and Sun.''
Nor have Internet service providers and other telecommunications-oriented  companies shown much evidence, Ms. Gere of International Data said,  that they are capable of offering the highly specific customized services  that big corporate clients demand.
``Telecommunications companies  that try to do things efficiently for a large number of customers  have not been able to offer customized one-to-one relationships,''  she said.
Pittman said that America Online had been driven to the  e-commerce business because companies that approached it wanting to  sell their goods needed more help than simply advertising online.
``We are finding people who are expert in running bricks-and-mortar  stores are limited by their infrastructure,'' he said.
``They have  an online store, but their square footage is too small.''
Even before  the Netscape deal, America Online was moving to provide some electronic  commerce software and services.
It has been rewriting the software  that lets companies open online stores to be based on universally  accepted Internet standards rather than the specific computer language  used only on America Online.
This new software, which now will be  combined with Netscape's online store services, will be available  for companies to use both on America Online and on the Internet.
Similarly,  it has developed a service that lets users create a file with their  credit card numbers and shipping address so they can make online purchases  without retyping all that information each time.
America Online is  to stores on the broader Internet.
There is a wide range of services that are incorporated in electronic  commerce.
These include high-end strategy consulting to help companies  decide whether and how to sell online without hurting their traditional  sale in stores.
There are all sorts of computer systems to be developed,  ranging from the online stores themselves to connecting those sites  to a company's existing inventory and accounting systems.
In October 1998 amid worldwide financial crises, particular concern focused on Russia where economic meltdown was exacerbated by conflicted politics.
President Yeltsin's latest Prime Minister, Primakov, was supported by Communists and when word leaked out that a Communist economic program was under consideration, Yeltsin denounced it.
Primakov then assured the public that "there is no program," suggesting that there would not be until the International Monetary Fund (IMF) came forth with a massive loan.
IMF demanded a sound economic program before approving loan payment.
Meanwhile neighboring Ukraine felt economic effects of the IMF-Primakov standoff.
As world finance an banking representatives met in Washington, the economic news continued to be bleak.
IMF officials had predicted had predicted a banner year, but stocks continued to slide worldwide and the DOW probably would record its worst third quarter loss in eight years.
Russia and Ukraine have been especially hard hit by the crisis.
In Russia, Prime Minister Primakov had no plan to solve the problem as the economy continued to Suffer.
Postal service was threatened as the Post Office could not pay its bills.
President Kuchma of Ukraine called for changes in market reform even as the Parliament turned down a bill to restore lost savings.
Fifteen months of world economic turmoil are threatening political stability.
Lowering Federal Reserve interest rates is not countering the crisis.
IMF is worried about the turndown in Japan, economic meltdown in Russia, depression in Indonesia, and anxiety about Latin America where investors are pulling out.
IMF critics say it needs to understand national politics better and focus on social issues.
Russia's economic confusion is upsetting the US.
Russia is considering hard currency controls, demanding IMF loans and will not end government privatization.
Ukraine, affected by Russia, is trying to save its fast-developing money system and keep investors.
Early October was fraught with economic woes as the International Monetary Fund prepared for its annual meeting.
The IMF faces criticism for ignoring the social costs of its actions and being a pawn to Western demands.
A small cut in US interest rates lowered markets worldwide.
Russia, whose economy collapsed in August, was looking for a cure--possibly instituting Soviet-style measures.
Key issues were stopping dollars from leaving the country and getting foreign investment end IMF loans.
The postal service was in chaos, owing everyone.
Demonstrations were expected.
The Ukraine also struggled, especially to keep banks working.
An IMF loan was on the way.
Wall Street extended a global stock selloff Thursday with the Dow  industrials tumbling more than 200 points for a second straight day.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which plunged 237.90 points on Wednesday,  fell an additional 210.09, or by 2.7 percent, to close at 7,632.53.
Broader market indicators also sank sharply in heavy trading.
Bank  and technology stocks were particularly hard hit.
The selling spree,  amid worries about shrinking corporate profits and fears of new financial  crises, left the Dow 18.3 percent, or more than 1,700 points, below  the all-time high of 9,337.97 reached on July 17.
It was getting closer  to the low of 7,400 that was reached during trading Sept. 1, before  Wall Street's best-known indicator began a comeback bid that brought  it above 8,100 as recently as Monday.
The Dow's 12.4 percent slide  in the third quarter, which ended Wednesday, was its worst quarterly  performance in eight years.
It now is 3.5 percent below where it began  this year.
Stock prices earlier plunged in Asia, with Tokyo shares  falling 1.6 percent to a new 12-year low, and shares were falling  sharply in Europe, where Germany's central bank left interest rates  unchanged.
Blue chips in London sank 3.1 percent to close at new lows  for the year, while the key index in Frankfurt, Germany, closed down  5.5 percent and the main indicator in Paris was off 5 percent.
The  selloff in stocks has sent a flood of money into U.S. Treasury securities,  a traditional haven in times of uncertainty.
Yields on 30-year Treasury  bonds fell further below 5 percent Thursday, reaching levels unseen  for long-term government bonds since 1967.
Traders were alarmed to  see prices on the New York Stock Exchange nosedive 2.9 percent on  Wednesday, even though the Federal Reserve had lowered a key interest  rate one-quarter percentage point on Tuesday.
Some traders were disappointed  that the cut was not deeper amid fears a go-slow approach would not  do enough to counter the economic crises that have swept through Asia  and Russia and are threatening Latin America.
``The smaller-than-expected  lowering of interest rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve has a chain  reaction,'' said Lee Won-ho, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co.
in Seoul, South Korea, where the main stock index fell by 1.5 percent.
``It is affecting Wall Street, the Japanese market, ours and others.''
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus,  on Thursday said the Fed made the right decision in cutting rates  and that global powers now must push for stronger growth to offset  steep recessions in Asia and Russia.
Asked why stock markets, particularly  in the United States, have reacted so negatively to the Fed rate cut,  Camdessus said he believed confidence will soon be restored, especially  if financial leaders show resolve in their discussions over the next  week.
There also are worries about where the next financial market  crisis may erupt after last week's dlrs 3.6 billion private bailout  of Long-Term Capital Management LP of Greenwich, Connecticut.
In addition,  investors worldwide worry that the downturn on Wall Street could signal  a bad omen for the many foreign  companies dependent on exports to the huge U.S. market.
``There's  a psychological impact overall, but there's also a direct impact on  companies like Sony and TDK which derive a high percentage of their  earnings from overseas markets,'' said Pelham Smithers, a stock strategist  in Tokyo at ING Baring Securities (Japan) Ltd.
A new survey in Japan  said confidence among small- and medium-sized businesses about the  economy plunged to its worst level since the Bank of Japan began the  quarterly samplings in 1967.
President Boris Yeltsin would respond strongly to any effort to prohibit  Russians from buying foreign currencies, believing the move would  be like bringing another Iron Curtain down on the country, his spokesman  said Friday.
``The president clearly understands that such a ban would  be a clear violation of our rights ... that would mean a return to  the Iron Curtain in everyday life,'' said presidential spokesman Dmitry  Yakushin.
The remarks came after media reports of a government economic  plan in the works that would prohibit Russians from buying U.S. dollars  and other foreign currencies, and institute other strict economic  controls, rolling back seven years of reforms.
Though government officials  say such a plan is only one of six possibilities, Prime Minister Yevgeny  Primakov warned Thursday that he might be forced to take ``unpopular''  measures to rescue the Russian economy if it does not receive the  next installment in a dlrs 22.6 billion loan from the International  Monetary Fund.
Central Bank Chairman Viktor Gerashchenko and Finance  Minister Mikhail Zadornov flew to Washington on Friday for negotiations  with the IMF over the dlrs 4.3 billion installment.
IMF officials  have said they want the Russian government to come up with a sound  economic program before the loan is given, and have made it clear  that currency controls and boosting the money supply by printing rubles  are not acceptable.
But Primakov said that the country's plan would  be dependent on the IMF loan, not the other way around.
No short-term  economic plan will be known for another three weeks, long after the  IMF is set to make its decision, said First Deputy Prime Minister  Vadim Gustov.
A draft version of the government's fourth-quarter budget  would rely heavily on the IMF loan, the Kommersant newspaper said.
Without the loan, the government would have to engage in major deficit  part of the plan drafted  by First Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Maslyukov and leaked to the press  _ have apparently created a rift within the Cabinet.
The plan drew  heavy criticism from Zadornov, and Gerashchenko called the idea of  banning foreign currency sales ``a mad idea.''
Meanwhile, Russia's  stock market dropped by 5 percent to 38.8 Friday, but trading was  so light the downward move meant little.
The stock market has continued  to fall since the crisis hit Aug. 17.
And tax collection was down  in September, the result of the collapse in Russia's banking system,  said Alexander Pochinok, head of the government's finance and credit  department.
Revenues totaled 14.3 billion rubles (dlrs 875 million),  700 million rubles (dlrs 43 million) less than expected.
The government  wants to reverse this trend by raising taxes for oil and gas companies,  but the idea is expected to meet sharp resistance in the lower house  of Russia's parliament, which wants to cut tax rates, Pochinok said.
President Leonid Kuchma called Friday for ``corrections'' to Ukraine's  program of market reforms, but pledged that reforms would continue.
Kuchma did not elaborate in his comments to a group of Ukrainian economists,  saying only that the changes were necessary because of the country's  economic problems.
Kuchma urged the economists to come up with recommendations  before a national meeting of economists in November, the Interfax  news agency reported.
Ukraine has suffered economic problems since  the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union and it has been especially hard  hit by the financial crisis in neighboring Russia, its main trading  partner.
The Russian crisis has hurt bilateral trade, caused the Ukrainian  currency to fall and led to a withdrawal of investors from Ukraine.
In recent months, Kuchma has implemented some economic reforms by  decree, prompting the International Monetary Fund to release the first  installment of a long-awaited dlrs 2.2 billion loan.
Many reforms,  however, remain stalled.
National Bank chairman Viktor Yushchenko  was in Washington this week for consultations with IMF officials.
Yushchenko has warned that the bank would not spend its dwindling  reserves to support the hryvna currency, but has avoided comments  on the currency in recent days.
Kuchma met Friday with Yushchenko,  Prime Minister Valery Pustovoitenko and other senior officials to  discuss ways to stabilize the hryvna.
The government's press service  said they focused on possible ways to keep the hryvna under 3.5 to  the U.S. dollar through the end of the year.
The hryvna has been trading  at 3.4 to the dollar in recent days but trading has been limited.
There are wide expectations in Ukraine that the hryvna will fall even  further, and Ukrainians have been stocking up on food, clothing and  household goods to save their fast-devaluing money.
Ukraine's parliament on Friday refused to approve President Leonid  Kuchma's decree establishing a state fund to compensate people for  savings lost in banks.
Deputies voted 240-47 to prepare a revised  version of the decree and debate it later in the month.
They must  consider the decree by Oct. 10, or else it automatically takes effect  under the constitution.
Leftist factions, which voted against the  proposed legislation, said it would not fully guarantee the return  of savings lost during the financial instability that has recently  hit Ukraine.
The fund Kuchma proposed to establish would have accumulated  money in a special National Bank account and repay people in case  the bank they kept their savings in went bankrupt or became insolvent.
Although the decree provided for compensation of deposits amounting  only to 500 hryvna (dlrs 147 at the current exchange rate), its authors  said it would cover more than 90 percent of Ukrainians who keep their  money in banks.
The measure was meant to prevent mass withdrawals  of deposits that most Ukrainian banks have already experienced as  people, scared by the fall of the national currency and the turmoil  in neighboring Russia, started to stock up on food, clothing and household  goods.
Government officials say that Ukrainians have recently withdrawn  at least 10 percent of the 3 billion hryvna (dlrs 882 million) they  deposited in banks.
Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov said Saturday that the economic crisis  would not bring an end to the government's program of privatizing  state property.
``Privatization will be accomplished for growth of  production, growth of investment and growth of production effectiveness  through renewal of major funds,'' Primakov said during a meeting of  Western businessmen.
``We shall conduct privatization so that it serves  the interests of the people, the state, and business,'' he said, according  to the ITAR-Tass news agency.
Primakov reassured the businessmen,  members of the prime minister's consultive council on foreign investment  in Russia, that the government had no plans to ban the circulation  of U.S. dollars in Russia.
But, he said, the government would take  steps to staunch the flow of dollars from Russia.
Responding to media  reports of a government economic plan that would prohibit Russians  from buying U.S. dollars and other foreign currency, Primakov said  the reports ``absolutely do not correspond to reality,'' ITAR-Tass  quoted him as saying.
He said there was no need to regulate the influx  of dollars into Russia, but the government should take steps to prevent  what he called ``the dollar drain.''
Russian companies stashed about  dlrs 2.5 billion outside the country in September alone, the Interfax  news agency reported Friday, quoting central bank figures.
Primakov  said foreign investors are ``the force'' that will help Russia to  minimize its losses from the current economic crisis.
``We are very  much interested in foreign investments, especially in ones that go  into the real production sector,'' Primakov said, according to Interfax.
``We need a continuous dialogue with foreign investors, without whom  it will be difficult for us to overcome the current difficulties.''
He said Russia wanted long-term investments.
``Foreign capital has  been coming to the country via short-term operations,'' Primakov said.
This, he said, ``is not to our liking or yours.''
Viktor Gerashchenko,  the central bank chairman, said on Friday that the government must  act to stem the flow of dollars from Russia.
Gerashchenko and Finance  Minister Mikhail Zadornov were in Washington Saturday for the annual  meeting of the International Monetary Fund, where they plan to spell  out the measures Russia is taking to bail out its finance system.
Russia wants the IMF to release the second dlrs 4.3 billion installment  of a loan that was approved in July, a month before the country's  economy crashed and the government effectively defaulted on its foreign  loans.
IMF officials have said they want the Russian government to  come up with a sound economic program before the installment is given,  and have made it clear that currency controls and boosting the money  supply by printing rubles are not acceptable.
Russia's new prime minister picked an unusual way to reassure the  nation Thursday.
After two weeks of deliberations he announced that  he still had no plan to rescue the country from its economic crisis.
there is no program,'' Prime Minister  Yevgeny Primakov said.
``It has yet to be worked out.''
In most nations  such a statement might provoke alarm.
But Primakov was seeking to  calm an anxious public that was worried that the Kremlin's cure could  be worse than the disease.
It is not as if Russians do not have something  to be concerned about.
Thursday Primakov convened a meeting of top  aides to try to hammer out a strategy for overcoming the economic  woes.
A main item on the agenda was the plan drafted by Yuri Maslyukov,  a Communist and the government's senior policy maker on economic issues.
It did not take long for Maslyukov's plan to hit the street.
A newspaper,  Kommersant Daily, published it in full Thursday morning.
Not surprisingly  Maslyukov's plan calls for a greater state role in the economy, including  controls on hard currency.
A new State Bank for Reconstruction and  Development would be established using the ``nationalized assets''  of failed commercial banks.
Wages and pensions would be paid in two  months, and the minimum wage would be indexed to inflation.
There  would be huge tax cuts, a combination that suggested that the government  was committed to printing additional money.
The exchange rate of the  ruble would be set by the central bank, based on changes in inflation  and the balance of payments.
Maslyukov's plan also implies that Russians  would be able to buy dollars at exchanges through the country.
It  stipulates that hard currency could enter the country only with special  authorization.
Exporters would be required to sell most of their hard  currency reserves.
That is an allusion to currency controls that sent  shock waves through the Russian public.
Russians have come to treat  the dollar as a second currency, and many people have squirreled away  dollars as a hedge against inflation.
``It is an obvious stupidity,''  Otto Latsis, a commentator with the newspaper Noviye Izvestiya, said.
``People won't give their dollars away.
They will go to the black  market if they need to.''
Yegor Gaidar, the former prime minister  who favors free markets, said the plan was a ``war against the dollar''  and predicted that it would lead to a shortage of imports.
As the  criticism grew, Primakov rushed to distance himself from the talk  of currency controls.
``The rumors of the state's becoming a monopolist  on the inflow of hard currency into the country is nonsense,'' he  said, asserting that the document published by Kommersant Daily was  just one of six possible plans.
Primakov may be opposed to wildly  unpopular currency controls.
He may be worried that the plan would  would set off the panic buying of dollars, further depressing the  ruble.
Or he may simply be trying to keep his distance from Maslyukov's  plan while Russia tries to wrangle its next disbursement, $4.3 billion,  from the International Monetary Fund.
The particulars could be modified,  but many people following the maneuvering say they believe that it  represents the basic thrust of the government's thinking.
Primakov  has called for greater state regulation and an expansion of the money  supply, two themes of Maslyukov's plan.
The plan also has many similarities  with the plan presented to the government by Gorbachev-era advisers.
``We think it is close to being a final document,'' said the United  Financial Group, a Russian investment business.
It is unclear how  long Primakov can carry on without spelling out a detailed strategy.
The ousted tax chief, Boris Fyodorov, has argued that the IMF should  not provide further aid until Primakov has taken tough measures to  build a free market.
Primakov has, however, sought to turn that logic  on its head, arguing that his government's economic strategy will  depend on the fund's willingness to provide aid.
His aim appears to  be to pressure the fund by implying that it will be the fund's fault  if Russia is forced to default on its loans or take draconian measures  at home.
Or as Primakov put it Thursday, without the fund's money,  Russia will have to impose ``unpopular measures.''
When the world's finance ministers and central bankers gathered last  year in Hong Kong, they nervously congratulated each other for containing  a nasty financial brush fire in Asia.
In a year's time, many predicted in hallway chatter, the troubles  in Thailand and Indonesia would look like a replay of Mexico in 1995  _ a rough bump in the road for a world enjoying remarkable prosperity.
Talk about bad market calls.
Twelve months later, as the same financial  mandarins clog Washington with their limousines and glide through  endless receptions at the annual meeting of the International Monetary  Fund and the World Bank, just about everything that could have gone  wrong in the world economy has: the worst downturn in Japan since  World War II, economic meltdown in Russia, a depression in Indonesia  that is plunging 100 million people below the poverty line, and deep  fears over what happens next in Latin America.
What makes this year's  IMF meeting most remarkable, though, is that the harshest criticisms  are directed at the monetary fund itself, and, by extension, at the  U.S. Treasury, which is viewed as the power behind the IMF.
This year,  in place of confident predictions, there are mutual recriminations.
Arguments are breaking out over whether the true culprits were crony  capitalists and weakened leaders like Russian President Boris Yeltsin,  or huge investors who poured money into the world's emerging markets  with reckless abandon in the mid-1990s and panicked in the past twelve  months.
Whatever the reason, one reality prevails: Hundreds of billions  of dollars have fled from economies on four continents _ seeking the  safest havens possible, often in the United States _ and the money  is not returning anytime soon.
And the subtext of every seminar on  capital flows and every conclave of nervous ministers will be some  painfully blunt questions: Can this be stopped?
Or is the world headed  for a global recession?
Fifty-three years ago the IMF was created  after the Bretton Woods conference which sought to stabilize the world  economy and secure the peace after World War II.
Now it is under attack  from all sides, charged not only with worsening a bad situation by  misjudging the economics, but with being politically tone-deaf in  some of the most volatile capitals in the world, from Jakarta, Indonesia,  to Moscow.
For the first time, there are disturbing questions about  whether the institution itself is still capable, financially or politically,  of containing the kind of economic contagion that caught the world  unaware.
Once, the IMF's critics were largely found in Africa and  South Asia, were the fund was often viewed as arrogant; today they  include Wall Street's biggest players and top officials in the most  powerful economies of Asia and Europe.
Only a few _ including former  Secretary of State George Schultz and members of Congress who are  increasingly suspicious of all international institutions _ are talking  about scrapping the IMF altogether.
But almost everyone is talking  about creating a ``new financial architecture'' that can do what the  old one clearly cannot: smother financial wildfires before they leap  around the globe.
President Clinton, British Prime Minister Tony Blair  and other leaders, after months of silence, have edged into the debate,  in some cases wresting the issue for the first time from their finance  ministers and central banks.
Their fear, their advisers say, is that  15 months of financial turmoil are now threatening political stability.
Such concerns have turned this year's meeting into a tumbled mass  of worries and a groping for short and long-term solutions.
The Japanese,  the French, the Southeast Asians are all arriving in Washington with  different diagnoses of what went wrong, and different solutions about  how to set it right.
The United States has its own set of plans, a  mix of suggestions to force more disclosure of financial data in countries  around the world and to impose more American-style financial standards  and regulation.
Meanwhile, an ideological argument is breaking out  over whether the world should slow down a long march toward more free  and open markets _ a strategy pressed by the Clinton administration  for the past six years.
Others argue that it is unwise to start rebuilding  the hospital while the patients are still on the operating tables.
``Last year the standard answer that all of us were given came down  to this: `We have the IMF and the World Bank, and they know best,'''  Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said over breakfast in Washington  the other day, reflecting on how the crisis turned 30 years of astounding  growth in his country into an overnight depression.
``Then they said  everything that went wrong was our fault,'' he said.
``But now, now  I think people know that much of the problem came from the outside,  and we need something better.''
And the IMF itself is beginning to  fight back, an awkward role for an institution dominated by Ph.D.
economists who are unaccustomed to being openly challenged.
``Every  place you turn you read the same story, that we came in, that we made  things worse,'' said Stanley Fischer, the deputy managing director  of the fund, who was born in Northern Rhodesia _ now Zambia _ and  became chairman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's economics  department before taking a job that has now put him in the center  of the financial storm.
``We frequently get the blame, some of it  well-deserved,'' he said.
``But it is politically convenient for governments  around the world to cry, `The IMF made us do it,' and pin their mistakes  on us.
That's fine.
We'd rather be loved, but more than that we'd  like to be effective.''
MISCALCULATIONS, POLITICS AND SAFETY NETS  On a steaming January day, Michel Camdessus, the IMF's top official,  slipped into Jakarta to the private residence of President Suharto  and sat down for a four-hour meeting to tick off, line by line, the  huge reforms Indonesia would have to implement in return for tens  of billions of dollars in emergency aid.
Two previous deals had collapsed  when Suharto ignored the fund's conditions, so Camdessus insisted  that he strike a deal directly with Suharto, then Asia's longest-serving  leader.
It was a meeting of men who knew different worlds of power  politics: Suharto rose as a general in central Java, and Camdessus  had detonated mines in Algeria for the French army before entering  the French Treasury on his way to becoming head of France's central  bank.
``It was all there,'' a senior IMF official recalled.
``He was  told he had to dismantle the national airplane project, the clove  monopoly, all the distribution monopolies.''
At one point, Camdessus  looked at the impassive Suharto and said, ``You see what this means  for your family,'' a reference to their vast investments in the country's  key industries.
``He said, `I called in my children, and they all  understand.'''
But within months, that exchange in Jakarta came to  symbolize the IMF's twin troubles: Its inability to understand and  reckon with the national politics of countries in need of radical  reform, and its focus on economic stabilization rather than the social  costs of its actions.
Suharto had no intention of fulfilling the agreement.
It was, one of his former Cabinet members said, ``a delaying move  that was obvious to everyone except Camdessus.''
Perhaps one reason  why the IMF sometimes appears tone-deaf is that its senior staff is  almost entirely composed of Ph.D. economists.
There are few officials  with deep experience in international politics, much less the complexities  of Javanese culture that were at work in Indonesia.
Historically,  experts in politics and security have gravitated to the United Nations,  development experts to the World Bank, and economists to the IMF _  creating dangerous gaps in a crisis like this one.
As a result, the  fund had only a rudimentary understanding of what would happen if  its demands were met and all Indonesia's state monopolies were quickly  dissolved.
While that system lined the pockets of the Suhartos and  their friends, it also distributed food, gasoline and other staples  to a country that stretches for 3,000 miles over thousands of islands.
To help balance the budget, the fund demanded a quick end to expensive  subsidies that keep the price of food and gasoline artificially low.
But that, combined with the huge currency devaluation that sparked  the crisis, resulted in high prices and shortages that fueled riots  that continue to this day, as millions of Indonesians lose their jobs.
The IMF _ unintentionally, its officials insist _ also sped Suharto's  resignation, insisting on the elimination of ``crony capitalism,''  code words for removing the Suharto family from the center of the  economy.
Ultimately, that may prove to be Indonesia's salvation, if  the new government can contain the rioting against the ethnic Chinese  minority _ whose money is desperately needed to save the country's  fast-shrinking economy.
``It is worth noting,'' Fischer said this  week, ``that our programs in Asia _ in Indonesia, Korea and Thailand  _ only took hold after there was a change in government.''
Nonetheless,  the Indonesia experience has revived the argument that the IMF is  so focused on stabilizing banks and currencies, on preventing capital  flight and freeing up markets, that it is blind to the social costs  of its actions.
Among the toughest critics has been its sister institution,  the World Bank, whose main charge is alleviating poverty.
``You've  seen the tension almost every day,'' one senior World Bank official  said recently.
The bank has gone to extraordinary lengths in recent  months to differentiate its role from that of the fund, and to announce  a tripling of aid to the poorest in the countries hit by the economic  chaos.
Even U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan has joined the argument,  warning in a speech at Harvard recently that ``if globalization is  to succeed, it must succeed for poor and rich alike.
It must deliver  rights no less than riches.
It must be harnessed to the cause not  of capital alone, but of development and prosperity for the poorest  of the world.''
IMF officials say they are changing strategies when  they see they are exacting too great a social cost.
``It's a very  difficult formula to get exactly right,'' Fischer said in August,  as Russia was teetering and the IMF was sending in $4.8 billion in  aid that was rapidly wasted.
``You need enough discipline to send  the right message to the markets and keep investors from fleeing.
But you need enough leeway to keep people from suffering more than  they otherwise would.''
In recent months, he noted, the IMF has allowed  more spending to sustain subsidies for basic goods for longer periods  in Indonesia, Korea and elsewhere.
``There is a new flexibility at  the IMF'' a senior Indonesian official concluded recently.
``It is  a lot better.''
A U.S. PAWN, OR A RUNAWAY AGENCY?
The Clinton administration  admits that the IMF has many failings, many of them on display this  year.
But it insists that the world has gone through global financial  crises without an IMF once before in this century _ and the result  was the 1930s.
``I have no doubt the situation over the past year  would have been much worse _ with greater devaluations, more defaults,  more contagion, and greater trade dislocations _ without the program  agreed with the IMF and the finance it has provided,'' Deputy Treasury  Secretary Lawrence Summers told Congress last week.
Many Republicans  and some Democrats are unconvinced.
Even though the Senate has overwhelmingly  approved an $18 billion contribution to the fund to help it fight  new crises, the House defeated that measure two weeks ago.
The fund's  last hope of getting the money, which will free up nearly $100 billion  in contributions from other nations waiting for the United States  to act, will come when the House and Senate try to resolve their budget  differences in a conference committee in the next 10 days.
A rejection,  Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin insists, would send a message around  the world that the United States is turning its back on the one institution  charged with restoring economic stability.
Everywhere else in the  world, though, politicians and businessmen insist that one of the  biggest problems with the IMF is that, contrary to the view of Congress,  it acts as the U.S. Treasury's lap dog.
Ask in Jakarta or Moscow,  and the response is the same: The IMF never ventures far without looking  back for the approving nod of its master.
When the United States weighs  in, however, is when the IMF is called on to rescue a country in deep  trouble.
Only then does the IMF _ and the U.S. Treasury _ have the  leverage to extract commitments in return for billions in aid.
In  theory, the U.S. influence is limited: It has an 18.5 percent vote  in the fund.
Germany, Japan, France and Britain have about 5 percent  each.
But in practice the United States usually gets its way, exercising  its influence behind the scenes, often in interactions between Fischer  and Summers.
The two met when Fischer was on the MIT faculty and Summers  was a graduate student taking one of his classes, later becoming a  colleague at MIT.
Each served as chief economist of the World Bank.
It was Summers who was instrumental in placing Fischer in the fund's  no. 2 job, and these days they talk constantly.
``It's usually a warm  relationship,'' Fischer said this summer.
``Remember, this is a job  where you cannot turn to outsiders for advice _ you can't call the  chief economist at a Wall Street firm, or even many of your academic  friends, because so many of the issues are confidential.''
The Treasury's  relations with Camdessus are often more strained as he plays the role  of world diplomat, traveling the globe and trying to coax along political  leaders.
The tensions were obvious from the start of the Asia crisis.
The fund made little secret of its displeasure that the United States  was not offering direct aid to Thailand, a major U.S. ally, as a sign  of support and confidence.
Mindful of the backlash in Congress when  Mexico was bailed out with U.S. money, that was the last thing the  Treasury planned to do.
Summers, in turn, thought the fund was not  forcing the Thais to implement its reform commitments rigorously enough  or disclose their true financial picture.
Within the U.S. government  there was other dissension: The State and Defense Departments felt  the United States should do more for Thailand, but backed off when  the Treasury asked if they would like to pony up some aid out of their  own budgets.
There were other conflicts.
When Japan used the last  IMF meeting to propose setting up a $100 billion ``Asia Fund'' _ one  that would exclude the United States and would probably offer aid  under much more relaxed conditions than the IMF does.
Rubin called  up Camdessus at breakfast one morning and told him that the Japanese  proposal would undercut the IMF's authority.
``We've just had a dispute  with Michel,'' Rubin reported to his aides as he returned to his orange  juice and croissant.
One of them shot back: ``And it's only 8 a.m.''  Camdessus backed down at Rubin's insistence and walked away from money  that Asia could have used.
Japan says it will be back with a similar  proposal this weekend, this time for a $30 billion fund.
Camdessus  has also rankled U.S. officials with statements that amounted to cheerleading  to reassure the markets _ sometimes in the face of the facts.
In June,  with Russia on its way to collapse, Camdessus declared that ``contrary  to what markets and commentators are imagining'' about the slow collapse  of Russia's economy, ``this is not a crisis.
This is not a major development.''
The bailouts of Russia and South Korea were prime examples of how  Washington muscles into the IMF's turf as soon as major U.S. strategic  interests are involved.
Last Christmas, as South Korea slipped within  days of running out of hard currency to pay its debts in December,  it sent a secret envoy, Kim Kihwan, to work out a rescue package.
``I didn't bother going to the IMF,'' Kim recalled recently.
``I called  Summers' office at the Treasury from my home in Seoul, flew to Washington  and went directly there.
I knew that was how this would get done.''
Within days the Treasury dispatched David Lipton, its most experienced  veteran of emergency bailouts, who is leaving his post as undersecretary  for international affairs this month, to shadow the IMF staff's negotiations  with the government in Seoul.
Fischer was displeased.
``To make a  negotiation effective, it has to be clear who has the authority to  do the negotiating,'' he said.
WHO LOST RUSSIA?
The pattern was repeated  this summer, when the United States raced to put together a $17 billion  package for Russia.
The IMF's staff in Moscow declared that Russia  needed no money at all _ it just needed to enact policies that would  restore confidence in investors.
The Americans and Germans came to  a different conclusion.
Soon after, U.S. officials gathered in the  White House situation room to consider what might happen to Russia  if the ruble was devalued and market reforms collapsed and to push  the IMF to come up with emergency money.
So the fund began assembling  a last-ditch program to prop up a country that had resisted its reform  plans for seven years.
Camdessus, though, was still hesitant, questioning  whether the IMF should risk its scarce resources in Russia.
``We had  to pull Michel along,'' a senior Treasury official recalled.
As it  turned out, Camdessus' instincts were right while the approach championed  by Rubin and Summers proved disastrously wrong.
The first installment  of that payment _ $4.8 billion _ was wasted, propping up the currency  long enough, in the words of one IMF official, ``to let the oligarchs  get their money out of the country.''
Then Yeltsin reversed his commitments,  let the ruble devalue anyway, began printing money with abandon and  fired virtually every reformer in his government _ resulting in a  collapse of the IMF agreements and the indefinite suspension of its  aid program.
Now, inside the IMF and on Capitol Hill, there are recriminations  over ``who lost Russia.''
Publicly, Fischer argues that ``there are  no apologies owed for what we attempted in Russia.''
But some IMF  officials complain privately that they let Rubin and Summers run roughshod  over them, striking a deal that fell apart within weeks as the Russian  parliament rebelled and Yeltsin backed away from his commitments.
Summers responds that the United States ``took a calculated risk''  because ``it was vastly better that Russia succeed than not succeed.''
The Russian collapse touched off new rounds of economic contagion,  with investors fleeing Latin America, and triggering huge losses in  hedge funds like Long Term Capital, the Greenwich, Conn., investment  firm that needed to be rescued by Wall Street powerhouses whose money  it had invested.
``Russia was a turning point,'' said Robert Hormats,  the vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Co. ``It made the world  realize that some countries can fail, even if the IMF and the Treasury  intercede.
And that changed the perception of risk.''
Now, as the  countries meet to face a future that the IMF has warned could be very  bleak, they need to reverse those perceptions, or watch countries  slowly starve for lack of capital.
The emerging markets are calling  for controls on short term investments.
The French want a stronger  IMF.
The Americans say the answer is more disclosure, so that investors  are better warned, and tougher regulation.
``These are usually nice,  quiet meetings; everyone very polite,'' a top U.S. official said earlier  this week.
``Not this year.''
In a season of crashing banks, plunging rubles, bouncing paychecks,  failing cropsand rotating governments, maybe it is not the ultimate  insult.
But the nation that bore Tolstoy and Chekhov, and still regards  a well-written letter as a labor of love, is buckling a little this  week, because it can no longer wish good health to Baba Anya in Omsk.
The Post Office is broke.
In 60 of the country's 89 statelike regions,  more than 1,000 mail cars have been sidetracked, many stuffed with  up to 18 tons of letters, newspapers and parcels.
The state Railway  Ministry refuses to carry more mail until the Post Office makes good  about $13 million in today's  dollars, or $35 million in dollars six weeks ago.
Air mail, which  amounts to one of every four or five letters, was also suspended at  one of Moscow's major airports until this week, when the Post Office  coughed up 5 million rubles for old bills.
A second airport is still  demanding 3 million rubles for past-due debts.
So much mail is backed  up that post offices in Moscow and elsewhere have simply stopped accepting  out-of-town mail, except for areas that can be easily reached by truck.
Delivery schedules have fallen weeks, and perhaps months, behind.
``The situation is really extraordinary,'' said Vladimir Sherekhov,  the deputy chief of mail service administration in the government's  Communications Committee.
``We've never had anything like this before.''
Maybe the Post Office has been lucky.
Extraordinary is the rule elsewhere  in Russia.
Until Friday, the lower house of Parliament was preparing  to sue the government for failure to provide soap, heat, toilet paper  and copy-machine paper in the legislature's monumental downtown offices.
It turned out that politicians had exhausted their funds by cutting  short their recess and returning to address the nation's economic  crisis.
Earlier in the week, officials said Russia's Arctic shipping  routes may close next month because half the nation's icebreakers  are in disrepair and there is no money to fix them.
The oldest of  the ships is so ancient that its nickname is Granny.
Such anecdotal  evidence that Russia is losing its wheels, like one of its old, ill-maintained  Volga sedans, is everywhere.
But oddly, real signs of public distress  are not particularly common, perhaps because the system rarely seems  to shed a part as big as a postal system.
If the U.S. Postal Service  is increasingly a pipeline for sweepstakes notices and bills, the  Russian Post Office still holds a special place in the national conversation.
Russians still write letters to each other, frequently and fervently,  and many in remote regions get their news through the mail.
Millions  use the mails to ship canned goods and other provisions to needy relatives  and friends in faraway areas, an especially vital service in winter.
And in the last few years, the Post Office has become a vehicle for  a growing mail-order trade in books, clothes and other catalog items  not readily available outside big cities.
Exactly why all this has  rumbled to a halt is in some dispute.
What is clear is that the Post  Office and the Railway Ministry both suffer from what ails every Russian  venture, private and public alike: Nobody pays his bills.
The state  Railway Ministry complains that it is continually stiffed by customers  who believe the railroads are honor-bound to carry freight whether  they are paid or not.
The government has specified nearly 40 categories  of freight which the railroads must carry for next to nothing.
Among  the biggest deadbeats are the ``power ministries'' _ the military  and interior departments _ which did not pay during Soviet times and  feel little need to pay now.
``It's a psychology formed during the  socialist period,'' said Tatiana Pashkova, the deputy spokeswoman  for the ministry, ``and the same situation exists with the Post Office.
We've been in dispute for a very long time.
Always we try to understand  their differences.
But we can't carry cargo for free.''
No kidding,  says the Post Office: It, too, is owed 200 million rubles by government  agencies, and is barred from raising rates even though freight costs  are outstripping revenues.
Moreover, the Post Office is also required  by the government to carry some forms of mail, such as pension checks,  at reduced rates.
Officials at the state Communications Department  say they also suspect an ulterior motive in the railroads' actions:  a struggle to dominate the thriving mail-order business.
``Here's  competition between us and the railroads for the delivery of parcels,  and I think decisions made by the railroads are mainly explained by  this competition,'' Sherekhov said.
``They blame us for carrying some  commercial cargoes instead of mail.''
The Railways Ministry's spokeswoman,  Ms. Pashkova, said such ``commercial cargoes'' are indeed a problem,  but only because the railroads know that the Post Office has already  gotten cash to transport the packages.
The railroads are still waiting  for their share of that money, she said.
In the meantime, the situation  has come to a boil.
In late September the railroads cut mail service  in and out of Moscow, effectively decapitating the postal system and  forcing officials to draft a fleet of trucks to move letters in and  out of the city.
Hundreds of empty and full rail cars have clogged  some local yards to the point where moving cars into position for  unloading has become difficult.
At last count, 39 loaded cars were  awaiting service at one yard.
And customers are getting angry.
``We've  gotten all kinds of complaints,'' said Viktor Salikov, a deputy in  the Communications Department's mail shipping center.
``People are  even coming to us, searching for mail that was sent weeks ago.''
The United States is disappointed by the economic confusion within  the new Russian government of Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, said  Secretary of State Madeleine Albright on Friday, and she warned Russia  about the dangers of an anti-Western policy.
In her first comprehensive  review of U.S.-Russian relations since Primakov was confirmed as prime  minister last month, Albright said Washington was ``deeply concerned''  about Russia's direction and did not think the crisis there would  soon abate.
``We have heard a lot of talk in recent days about printing  new money, indexing wages, imposing price and capital controls and  restoring state management of parts of the economy,'' she told the  U.S.-Russia Business Council in Chicago.
``We can only wonder if some  members of Primakov's team understand the basic arithmetic of the  global economy.''
While praising Primakov, once her counterpart when  he was foreign minister, as a pragmatist able to cooperate on key  issues with Washington, she had harsh words of warning for him.
``Our  initial reaction to some of the direction he's going in has not been  particularly positive,'' she said, adding, ``The question now is whether  that cooperation can continue.''
The United States must keep up its  aid to Russia but is adjusting it to promote the building of democracy  and student exchanges as well as arms control, Albright said.
Washington  does not favor more direct aid.
``More big bailouts are not by themselves  going to restore investor confidence in Russia,'' she said.
``In the  long run, the gap between Russia's needs and its resources must be  met not by foreign bailouts but by foreign investment.''
Albright  sharply criticized as self-defeating the ``many voices in Russia who  want to shift the emphasis in Russia's interaction with America and  our allies from one of partnership to one of assertiveness, opposition  and defiance for its own stake.''
Russia could not stand alone in  the world, she said, and the United States' ability ``to help Russians  help themselves will go from being merely very, very difficult to  being absolutely impossible.''
At the same time, she said, Washington  would not ``assume the worst, for there are still plenty of people  in Russia who will fight against turning back the clock.''
And she  to ``be patient with the  workings of the democratic process in Russia'' and ``not start each  day by taking a census of reformers in the Kremlin,'' a census that  American officials themselves promoted before President Boris Yeltsin  dismissed the previous government.
While Moscow may continue to oppose  any NATO use of force against Serbian forces in the southern province  of Kosovo, Albright said, NATO must be prepared to act regardless.
and it has been planning for  months _ millions of Russians will take to the streets on Wednesday  for some of the biggest demonstrations in years.
But now that Communists  or politicians with the Communist stamp of approval are running the  country and its economy the question is what the marchers will be  demonstrating against.
President Boris Yeltsin and his economic advisers  were easy targets two months ago.
But Yeltsin seems but a shadow of  himself today, and his advisers are gone.
The Communists, who have  undergone a sort of resurgence by playing on the discontent, are working  hard to cast themselves as outsiders in the government that they help  run _ and to keep the focus of the protests on Wednesday on Yeltsin  and his policies.
Even that strategy may backfire, however, because  discontent over Yeltsin does not necessarily translate into support  for his predecessors.
An adviser to the Communist Party leader, Gennadi  Zyuganov, made headlines not long ago when he called the new government  bourgeois.
The characterization was striking, because the new prime  minister, Yevgeny Primakov, was one of Zyuganov's top choices for  the post.
The deputy prime minister in charge of the economy, Yuri  Maslyukov, is a Communist Party figure who once headed Gosplan, the  infamous central-planning program that helped bring the Soviet Union  to ruin.
``We don't have slogans that are aimed against the government,''  the first secretary of the Moscow Communist Party committee, Alexander  Kuvayev, said in a recent interview.
``All the slogans are aimed against  the president and the economic course of the country.
Only the president  can fully be blamed for the course that has brought the country to  this situation.''
Anger over Russia's fate, and their own, is drawing  some Russians back to Soviet-style slogans and old-style hostility  toward capitalism.
The ardently pro-Communist newspaper Sovietskaya  Rossiya devoted most of its front page on Thursday to what it said  were the results of a contest among readers for protest slogans.
The  entries ranged from catchy to kitschy, from, ``Legislator, official,  banker _ study the Constitution; the exam is Oct. 7,'' to, `` Imperialist!
Help Russia return the exported capital, and we will pay the debts  at once.''
Russia has seen nothing approaching this sort of economic  chaos and despair since 1993, when hyperinflation swept the economy.
There is no real way of knowing whether the latest travails will produce  huge and ugly crowds or small, peaceful ones.
A deputy editor and  political analyst at a newsweekly, Itogi, Masha Lipman, said the situation  was not unlike that of 1993, when Yeltsin sought, and won, a popular  mandate in a referendum.
He used it to dissolve the Communist-dominated  Parliament and increase his own power.
That led to an autumn showdown,  the shelling of Parliament by tanks and the total defeat, for the  time being, of Yeltsin's legislative opponents.
``You can interpret  this demonstration as a Communist mandate, but I don't think they  will act like Yeltsin,'' Ms. Lipman said.
``Support for the Communists  is at its smallest level, maybe 20 percent.''
In a survey of 1,714  people that was released last week the All-Russian Public Opinion  Center said that nearly half the population supported the idea of  demonstrations against Yeltsin, but that barely one-tenth were likely  to participate in any way.
``Nobody is interested in any sort of struggle,''  Yuri Levada, who heads the center, said in an interview.
``This is  mainly a general expression of a great wave of distrust of authorities,  mainly the president.
He's the great scapegoat for all our sins.''
There seems to be little enthusiasm for demonstrations of any sort.
Only a few thousand people turned out Sunday for the fifth anniversary  of the shelling of Parliament and Yeltsin's subsequent triumph over  the Communists.
The Communist Party and the Federation of Independent  Russian Unions, a leftist organization that says it is the main sponsor  of the protests, predict that 9 million Russians will participate  on Wednesday.
The government has vowed to keep order without resorting  to force.
But it is concerned enough that it has summoned 11,000 police  officers to patrol Moscow and 6,000 military troops to intervene if  violence erupts.
Protests since 1993 have generally been tepid, a  deep-seated feeling here.
Some demonstrations last week, more or less  practice runs, hinted at similarly dampened marches this year.
In early October 1998 Turkey moved 10,000 troops to the Syrian border accusing its neighbor of harboring Kurdish rebels and their leader Abdullah Ocalan.
Syria denied the charges and blamed Turkey's belligerence on its military alliance with Israel.
As the dispute threatened to ignite the whole volatile region, Egypt's President Mubarak launched a mediation effort soon joined by Iran and Jordan.
Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Sudan, Lebanon and Greece voiced support for Syria, but all called for a diplomatic solution.
Israel did not take sides urging diplomatic talks and insisting that Israeli-Turkish military cooperation played no role in the crisis.
Tensions between Syria and Turkey increased as Turkey sent 10,000 troops to its border with Syria.
The dispute comes amid accusations by Turkey that Syria helping Kurdish rebels based in Syria.
Kurdish rebels have been conducting cross border raids into Turkey in an effort to gain Kurdish autonomy in the region.
Egyptian President Mubarek has been involved in shuttle diplomacy to the two states in an effort to defuse the situation and Iraq also has offered to mediate the dispute between the two countries.
Although Israel has tried to demonstrate its neutrality, Lebanon has charged That Israel is the cause of the tensions between Syria and Turkey.
Tensions rose between Syria and Turkey over claims that Syria harbored Kurdish rebels, Turkey's growing ties with Israel, and Turkish dams on the Euphrates.
Turkey sent 10,000 troops to the Syrian border.
Israel declared non-involvement and limited border exercises.
Egypt's President traveled to Syria and Turkey to mediate.
Jordan urged the interests of the region and offered to mediate, as did Iran.
Lebanon denied harboring Kurds, sided with Syria and blamed Israel for tensions, but urged peace.
Greece said Turkey undermined stability but urged neighbors to get along.
The Saudis, Yemen and Sudan supported Syria but urged peace.
Assad was to visit Turkey.
On October 1, Turkey moved 10,000 troops toward the Syrian border, and later sent jets along--possibly across--the border.
Turkey warned Syria it could no longer tolerate Syria's sheltering Kurdish rebels in Syria and Lebanon's Bekaa Valley.
Fighting with Kurdish rebels began in 1984.
The Syrian denial included claims that Turkey was taking water and had a strategic alliance with Israel.
Egypt, then Iran and Jordan, sought to defuse the situation and find a diplomatic solution for the two Muslim nations.
Greece, predictably, chided Turkey, while Israel denied involvement and limited its military activities along the Syrian border.
Turkey has sent 10,000 troops to its southeastern border with Syria  amid growing tensions between the two neighbors, newspapers reported  Thursday.
The daily Milliyet quoted eyewitnesses as saying they saw  convoys of armored vehicles approaching the 600-kilometer (375-mile)  border; the daily Cumhuriyet said around 10,000 troops were being  deployed.
Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin denied any troop movement  along the border, but said Turkey's patience was running out.
President  Suleyman Demirel was harsher during parliament's opening session Thursday.
``I declare to the world that we retain our right to counter Syria,  which has not given up its hostile attitude despite all our warnings  and peaceful approaches,'' he said.
Turkey accuses Syria of harboring  Turkish Kurdish rebels fighting for autonomy in Turkey's southeast;  it says rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan lives in Damascus.
Relations  are also strained by the growing military and diplomatic ties between  Turkey and Israel, which Damascus claims destabilizes the region.
Signaling it does not want to be involved in any potential military  confrontation between Syria and Turkey, Israel is limiting routine  exercises along its own border with Syria.
Prime Minister Benjamin  Netanyahu also stressed Israel's hands-off approach to the escalating  dispute between Damascus and Ankara.
``We have no part in this tension,''  Netanyahu told reporters in Jerusalem on Sunday.
``We have taken steps  to reassure Syria.''
Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai instructed  the army to limit military maneuvers along Israel's border with Syria  to avoid giving any impression Israel is poised to act.
``Israel is  not interested in confrontation with Syria, but rather in finding  ways to renew talks,'' Mordechai's office quoted him Sunday as saying.
Turkey amassed, 4th graf pvs
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met here Sunday with Syrian President  Hafez Assad to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey.
Mubarak left after the two-hour meeting without speaking to reporters.
But Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa, who accompanied him on the  trip, said before their departure that Mubarak ``backs dialogue for  solving disputes and not military power and threats.''
Egypt's Middle  East News Agency quoted Moussa as saying that Arab support for Syria  should not be read in Ankara as animosity toward Turkey.
The agency  also quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq al-Sharaa as saying that  Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness of the situation and that  it should be dealt with diplomatically and not through confrontation  or threats.''
Al-Sharaa said he hoped Mubarak's trip to Turkey would  achieve results.
Turkey's Foreign Ministry said Mubarak was expected  in Ankara, possibly on Monday.
The talks in Damascus came as Turkey  has massed forces near the border with Syria after threatening to  eradicate Kurdish rebel bases in the neighboring country.
In a show  of force on Friday, Turkish jets buzzed the Syrian frontier, a Turkish  daily reported.
Mubarak had made an unannounced trip to Riyadh on  Saturday to get backing from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for his mediation  efforts.
Egypt, the Arab world's largest country with 60 million people,  frequently tries to mediate Arab and Muslim disputes.
``We have to  stop the tension and contain it, and military threats should stop,''  Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday.
``I am ready to exert  every effort in this direction in Damascus and Ankara.''
Moussa said  Mubarak had consulted by phone on Saturday with Assad and also conveyed  a message to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel through Turkey's ambassador  to Egypt, Yasser Yakis.
Turkey long has accused Syria of sheltering  Kurdish rebels, who have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy  for the Kurdish population in southeastern Turkey.
Syria denies sheltering  Kurdish fighters.
Late last week, Turkey sent 10,000 troops into northern  Iraq to hit bases that Turkish Kurds use for their uprising.
For its  part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with  Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining  position in peace talks with the Jewish state.
Damascus also accuses  Turkey of building a series of dams on the Euphrates River that threaten  to reduce Syria's water supply.
Editorials in the Arab world called  on both sides to show restraint.
In Baghdad, the newspaper Babil,  published by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's son Odai, reported the  Turkish incursion into Iraq.
``The region cannot bear another conflict  nor an increase in the present tensions,'' Babil said in an editorial.
``The Turkish buildup does not serve anybody as much as it will harm  Turkey and Syria and other parties in the region.''
The English-language  Egyptian Gazette said in an editorial on Sunday that ``the Syrians,  understandably, harbor the belief that Turkey is being manipulated  by its new-found ally, Israel, to pounce,'' with the dispute over  Kurdish rebels being a pretext.
Israel, for its part, said it does  not want to become involved in any military confrontation between  Syria and Turkey.
``We have no part in this tension,'' Israeli Prime  Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters in Jerusalem on Sunday.
``We have taken steps to reassure Syria.''
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met here Sunday with Syrian President  Hafez Assad to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey.
Mubarak left after the two-hour meeting without speaking to reporters.
Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said before their departure that  Mubarak ``backs dialogue for solving disputes and not military power  and threats.''
Egypt's Middle East News Agency quoted Moussa as saying  that Arab support for Syria should not be read in Ankara as animosity  toward Turkey.
The agency also quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq  al-Sharaa as saying that Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness  of the situation and that it should be dealt with diplomatically and  not through confrontation or threats.''
Al-Sharaa said he hoped Mubarak's  trip to Turkey would achieve results.
Turkey's Foreign Ministry said  Mubarak was expected in Ankara, possibly on Monday.
The talks in Damascus  came as Turkey has massed forces near the border with Syria after  threatening to eradicate Kurdish rebel bases in the neighboring country.
In a show of force on Friday, Turkish jets buzzed the Syrian frontier,  a Turkish daily reported.
Mubarak had made an unannounced trip to  Riyadh on Saturday to get backing from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for  his mediation efforts.
Egypt, the Arab world's largest country with  60 million people, frequently tries to mediate Arab and Muslim disputes.
``We have to stop the tension and contain it, and military threats  should stop,'' Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday.
``I am  ready to exert every effort in this direction in Damascus and Ankara.''
Moussa said Mubarak had consulted by phone on Saturday with Assad  and also conveyed a message to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel  through Turkey's ambassador to Egypt, Yasser Yakis.
Turkey long has  accused Syria of sheltering Kurdish rebels, who have been fighting  since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish population in southeastern  Turkey.
Syria denies sheltering Kurdish fighters.
Late last week,  Turkey sent 10,000 troops into northern Iraq to hit bases that Turkish  Kurds use for their uprising.
For its part, Syria has accused Turkey  of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security  and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the  Jewish state.
Damascus also accuses Turkey of building a series of  dams on the Euphrates River that threaten to reduce Syria's water  supply.
Editorials in the Arab world called on both sides to show  restraint.
In Baghdad, the newspaper Babil, published by Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein's son Odai, reported the Turkish incursion into Iraq.
``The region cannot bear another conflict nor an increase in the present  tensions,'' Babil said in an editorial.
``The Turkish buildup does  not serve anybody as much as it will harm Turkey and Syria and other  parties in the region.''
The English-language Egyptian Gazette said  in an editorial on Sunday that ``the Syrians, understandably, harbor  the belief that Turkey is being manipulated by its new-found ally,  Israel, to pounce,'' with the dispute over Kurdish rebels being a  pretext.
Israel, for its part, said it does not want to become involved  in any military confrontation between Syria and Turkey.
``We have  no part in this tension,'' Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  told reporters in Jerusalem on Sunday.
``We have taken steps to reassure  Syria.''
As Turkey kept up warlike rhetoric against Damascus, Egypt on Sunday  began shuttle democracy between the two neighbors to avoid a military  confrontation over Turkish Kurdish bases in Syria.
Turkish President  Suleyman Demirel said that Turkey was in a position of self-defense  and had suffered for many years from Damascus' sheltering of the autonomy-seeking  rebels.
Some 10,000 Turkish troops were deployed this week on the  Turkish-Syrian border, news reports said.
Damascus denies that it  is supporting the rebels, who wage cross-border raids from camps in  Iraq, Iran and Syria.
``This situation is serious,'' Demirel said.
``I am not only warning Syria, I am warning the world.
This cannot  continue.''
He did not elaborate and it was unclear whether Demirel  was warning of a possible military confrontation.
But several military  and civilian leaders here have said that if diplomacy fails, the military  would be charged with solving the issue.
``Our patience has run out.
We are determined to take all necessary measures if we don't see any  response to our goodwill,'' the commander of Turkish land forces,  Gen. Atilla Ates, said last week.
Milliyet daily speculated Sunday  that Turkey could stage pinpoint attacks in the Syrian-controlled  Bekaa valley of Lebanon, where Turkey says the rebels have bases.
Another report claimed the Turkish army had been put on alert.
But  Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin insisted Sunday that war was the last  resort.
``I don't believe it will come to that,'' he said.
The war  in Turkey's southeast waged by rebels seeking autonomy for the country's  large Kurdish minority, has killed some 37,000 people since 1984.
In an attempt to the ease tension that many fear may spill over into  the entire Middle East, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met with  his Syrian counterpart Hafez Assad in Damascus.
Egypt's Middle East  News Agency quoted Syrian Foreign Minister Farouq al-Sharaa as saying  that Egypt and Syria ``agreed on the graveness of the situation and  that it should be dealt with diplomatically and not through confrontation  or threats.''
Al-Sharaa said he hoped Mubarak's trip to Turkey this  week would be fruitful.
Jordan, which cautioned Syria and Turkey to  take into consideration the higher interests of the region, offered  to mediate.
Fueling tension between the two countries are Turkey and  Israel's expanding military and diplomatic ties.
Syria claims the  ties are a threat to the Arab world, and on Saturday, Damascus again  accused Turkey of plotting with Israel to undermine Syria.
``We have  no part in this tension,'' Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  said Sunday.
``We have taken steps to reassure Syria.''
Israel has  also instructed its army to limit military maneuvers along its border  with Syria to avoid giving any impression that Israel is poised to  act.
On Sunday, the Arab League called on Turkey to end its military  cooperation with Israel.
Syria and Turkey have a long history of disagreements.
Damascus is concerned by Ankara's plans to build dams on the Euphrates  River, a key source of water for Syria, while Turkey accuses Syria  of having aspirations over a Turkish border province, Hatay, which  has a sizable Arab population.
Iran has offered to mediate between Syria and Turkey in the deepening  dispute over Kurdish rebel bases and plans to dispatch envoys to the  two countries, the Tehran Times reported Monday.
Egypt already has  launched a mediation effort to try to prevent a military confrontation  over Turkish allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held talks Sunday with Syrian President  Hafez Assad in Damascus and was expected to visit Turkey later this  week.
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made the offer of mediation  in a telephone conversation with his Syrian counterpart, Farouk al-Sharaa,  on Sunday, said the paper, which is close to the Foreign Ministry.
It did not say when Iran planned to send its emissaries.
Tensions  between Turkey and Syria, Iran's closest Arab ally, have escalated  in recent days.
Ankara has sent troops to its border with Syria, prompting  fears of an attack.
There have been unconfirmed reports of Turkish  jets violating Syria airspace near the border.
Turkish President Suleyman  Demirel warned Damascus on Sunday that Turkey would not allow its  neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels.
Syria denies the allegation.
Turkey long has accused Syria of providing refuge to Kurdish rebels,  who have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish  population in southeastern Turkey.
For its part, Syria has accused  Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab  security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks  with the Jewish state.
Turkey's military alliance with Israel has  been condemned by Iran.
Syria also has accused Turkey of threatening  its supply of water by building dams on the Euphrates River.
Iran has offered to mediate between Syria and Turkey in the deepening  dispute over Kurdish rebel bases and will dispatch envoys to the two  countries, the Tehran Times reported Monday.
Egypt already has launched  a mediation effort to try to prevent a military confrontation over  Turkey's allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held talks Sunday with Syrian President  Hafez Assad in Damascus and was expected to visit Turkey later this  week.
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made the mediation offer  Sunday in a telephone conversation with his Syrian counterpart, Farouk  al-Sharaa, said the paper, which is close to the Foreign Ministry.
It did not say when Iran planned to send its emissaries.
Tensions  between Turkey and Syria, Iran's closest Arab ally, have escalated  in recent days.
Ankara has sent troops to its border with Syria, prompting  fears of an attack.
There have been unconfirmed reports of Turkish  jets violating Syria airspace near the border.
Turkish President Suleyman  Demirel warned Damascus on Sunday that Turkey would not let its neighbor  continue sheltering Kurdish rebels.
Syria denies the allegation.
Turkey  long has accused Syria of providing refuge to Kurdish rebels, who  have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish population  in southeastern Turkey.
For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of  forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security  and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the  Jewish state.
Turkey's military alliance with Israel has been condemned  by Iran.
Syria also has accused Turkey of threatening its supply of  water by building dams on the Euphrates River.
In Jordan, Crown Prince  Hassan urged Demirel in a telephone call to ``exert all efforts to  resolve the crisis without resorting to military confrontation,''  said Information Minister Nasser Judeh.
Judeh said Hassan, who is  acting as regent in King Hussein's absence, also told Demirel that  Jordan was ``ready to provide any assistance'' to help resolve the  dispute.
Lebanon on Monday denied it is harboring Kurdish rebels and blamed  Israel for the rising tension between Syria and Turkey.
President  Elias Hrawi traveled to Damascus Monday for a summit meeting with  President Hafez Assad to show Lebanon's support for Syria.
Prime Minister  Rafik Hariri said his country backs Syria in the dispute which was  triggered Sunday when Turkish President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus  that his country would not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering  Kurdish rebels.
Syria denied the allegation.
Ankara has sent troops  to its border with Syria, prompting fears of an attack.
The Turkish  daily Milliyet speculated Sunday that Turkey could stage pinpoint  attacks in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley of eastern Lebanon,  where Turkey says rebels of Abdullah Ocalan's Kurdish Workers Party,  or PKK, maintain camps.
Lebanese Foreign Minister Faris Bweiz said  Monday there were no Kurdish rebels based in his country.
``The Turkish  authorities fully know that measures had been taken in Syria and Lebanon  more than a 1{ ago to stop the activities of any PKK member,'' Bweiz  told a news conference.
``We stand by Syria's side, especially in  its call for resolving disputes with Turkey in the framework of a  peaceful dialogue,'' He said.
Ocalan in recent years was believed  to shuttle between the Bekaa Valley and neighboring Syria.
Hariri  said in an interview with An-Nahar daily that Turkey's military moves  were the product of its newly forged military alliance with Israel.
``The Turkish threats are the first outcome of the Turkish-Israeli  strategic alliance,'' Hariri was quoted as saying.
The Lebanese press  also accused Israel of inflaming the tensions.
``It is brilliant Israeli  intelligence versus absolute Turkish folly,'' wrote Talal Salman,  publisher of the leftist newspaper As-Safir.
Greece on Monday warned that mounting tension between Turkey and Syria  could lead to ``tragic results'' if not dealt with in its early stages.
``Sources of tension are being created in our region,'' government  spokesman Dimitris Reppas said.
``We will have to deal with these  sources from their birth, because they may develop out of control  and we will be led to tragic results.''
Greece accused Turkey of undermining  the whole region's stability through its stand-off with Syria over  the alleged harboring of Kurdish rebels.
``Sadly, the tone of certain  countries is not constructive,'' Reppas said.
``Turkey in particular  ... repeatedly dynamites every effort'' for the creation of a climate  of regional stability.
Turkish troops have reportedly massed on the  frontier with Syria, while Ankara has indicated its readiness for  cross-border raids to eradicate what it claims are guerrilla bases  harboring Kurdish rebels.
Syria has denied the charge.
In the past,  Turkish officials have also accused Greece of harboring Kurdish rebels  and running guerrilla training camps.
Athens denied the charge, and  no evidence has been found to support the accusations.
Relations between  Greece and neighboring Turkey are rarely cordial.
The two NATO allies  are at odds over a variety of issues, and have twice reached the brink  of war in the past 11 years over the Aegean Sea.
But as neighbors,  countries in the region must learn to get along, Reppas stressed.
``No one can change geographical facts,'' he said.
``As we live in  this region of the world ... we have to strive for good friendly relations  and cooperation.''
Lebanon on Monday denied it is harboring Kurdish rebels and blamed  Israel for the rising tension between Syria and Turkey.
President  Elias Hrawi traveled to Damascus Monday for a summit meeting with  President Hafez Assad to show Lebanon's support for Syria.
He called  for a ``diplomatic dialogue'' to defuse the tension, said Assad's  spokesman Jubran Kourieh.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri said his country  backs Syria in the dispute, which was triggered Sunday when Turkish  President Suleyman Demirel warned Damascus that his country would  not allow its neighbor to continue sheltering Kurdish rebels.
Syria  denied the allegation.
Ankara has sent troops to its border with Syria,  prompting fears of an attack.
The Turkish daily Milliyet speculated  Sunday hat Turkey could stage pinpoint attacks in the Syrian-controlled  Bekaa Valley of eastern Lebanon, where Turkey says rebels of Abdullah  Ocalan's Kurdish Workers Party, or PKK, maintain camps.
Lebanese Foreign  Minister Faris Bweiz denied Monday that Kurdish rebels were based  in his country.
``The Turkish authorities fully know that measures  had been taken in Syria and Lebanon more than 1 1/2 years ago to stop  the activities of any PKK member,'' Bweiz said at a news conference.
Ocalan in recent years was believed to shuttle between the Bekaa Valley  and neighboring Syria.
``We stand by Syria's side, especially in its  call for resolving disputes with Turkey in the framework of a peaceful  dialogue,'' the Lebanese prime minister said in an interview with  An-Nahar daily.
Hariri said Turkey's military moves were the product  of its newly forged military alliance with Israel.
``The Turkish threats  are the first outcome of the Turkish-Israeli strategic alliance,''  Hariri was quoted as saying.
The Lebanese press also accused Israel  of inflaming the tensions.
``It is brilliant Israeli intelligence  versus absolute Turkish folly,'' wrote Talal Salman, publisher of  the leftist newspaper As-Safir.
Israeli officials had no immediate  comment because it is the Sukkot holiday and all government offices  are closed.
Since the Syrian-Turkish crisis began, Israeli defense  minister Yitzhak Mordechai has said Israel is not a party to it and  that the Israeli-Turkish military coooperation is not directed against  any third state.
Meanwhile, Syria's Assad received messages of support  from Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdel-Aziz and from the leaders  of Yemen and Sudan, said Syria's official news agency, SANA.
The Arab  leaders called for diplomatic solution to the crisis.
As contestants prepared for the 1998 running of Australia's 630 nautical mile Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race, the American maxi yacht Sayonara emerged as the favorite followed by Australia's Brindabella and Wild Thing.
Winds of 15-30 knots were forecast.
The first day of the race Brindabella and Sayonara led.
By the end of the second day horrendous conditions had developed with gales reaching 80 knots and waves as high as 10 meters.
By dusk of the third day three crewmen were dead, three missing, many injured and about half of the 115 yachts were forced out of the race.
Sayonara was narrowly ahead of Brindabella and expected to reach Hobart the next day.
Gale-force winds and high seas struck the 155 participants in Australia's Sydney to Hobart yacht race.
One sailor, Glyn Charles, who was swept off the yacht Sword of Orion, is presumed drowned and two seamen on the Business Post Naiad were killed.
Search and rescue efforts were stretched to the limit also as three yachts turned up missing.
One yacht, the B-52 was found with the crew safe.
Race organizers never considered canceling the race, claiming that the skippers controlled whether to stay in the race or drop out.
A total of 37 yachts were forced out of the race, many of which had lost their masts.
US-owned Sayonara, favored to win the Sydney-Hobart yacht race, set an early, fast lead.
Weather deteriorated.
In Bass Strait, boats rolled in heavy seas and crewmen were swept overboard.
37 yachts dropped from the race, with many dismasted and many crewmen injured.
The race continued as winds gusted to 90 mph and seas swelled to 35 feet.
Yachts Solo Globe and Winston Churchill went missing, as did B-52 which was later found.
Business Post Naiad's owner died of a heart attach and a crewman drowned.
Sword of Orion's Glyn Charles was presumed drowned after 24 hours overboard.
Three other sailors remained missing.
Sayonara maintained its lead.
Before this year, only two deaths had occurred in the 54-year history of the Sydney-to-Hobart race.
Since the start of this year's classic, Bruce Guy and Phil Skeggs from The Business Post Naiad have died, three from the Winston Churchill are missing, and Glyn Charles is presumed drowned after being washed overboard the Sword of Orion.
Huge seas and gale-force winds have battered the 115-boat fleet, forcing at least 37 yachts to retire.
Numerous crewmen have been rescued, including an American, John Campbell, who was swept overboard the Kingurra.
The race, nevertheless, continued.
American maxi Sayonara narrowly leads last year's winner, Brindabella.
United States maxi Sayonara looks set to continue the foreign domination  of line honors in Australia's famous Sydney to Hobart yacht race,  which starts Saturday.
Sayonara, raced by American computer billionaire  Larry Ellison, has only been beaten once since it was launched in  1995 and is aiming for its second win in the 630 nautical mile bluewater  classic.
If the 80-footer beats the local boats home into Hobart,  it will be third time in four years a foreign yacht has finished first.
New Zealand Endeavour trumped the locals in 1992, Sayonara won in  1995 and German's Morning Glory set a race record of two days, 14  hours, seven minutes and 10 seconds the following year.
Sayonara's  rivals are expected to be last year's line honors winner Brindabella  of Sydney and new Australian maxi Wild Thing.
The contest for handicap  honors appears more open, but there are many who believe Sayonara  could become the sixth yacht to do the line honors and handicap double.
Ellison believes unforeseen damage is the only major barrier to victory.
``She is a much more modern boat than Brindabella, if we don't break,  we should beat Brindabella, we should beat anybody,'' Ellison said.
``If we hold together we should win the race, the question is if this  boat comes through and pays us a favor we would just love to knock  off the record.''
Ellison says Sayonara can knock half a day off Morning  Glory's record given the right conditions.
Brindabella's captain and  owner George Snow believes a new record is possible.
``I think the  front boats will be very close all the way down, which will be a great  challenge,'' said Snow.
``We are well set up, we've got the best crew  we've ever had and I think the boat is in great shape,'' Snow added.
The race is tipped to start Saturday under freshening north easters  with the prospect of showers and a thunder storm before a southerly  change of around 25-30 knots later in the day.
The southerly is expected  to ease to 15-20 knots over Sunday before swinging back to the north  on Monday with a west to south westerly change expected to move through  Tasmania and Bass Strait on Tuesday when the first yacht is anticipated  to finish.
Leading maxi yachts Brindabella, Sayonara and Marchioness were locked  in a three-way duel down the New South Wales state coast Saturday  as the Sydney to Hobart fleet faced deteriorating weather.
All three  maxis reported in at the same latitude during Saturday night's positioning  report when they were about 30 nautical miles south of Jervis Bay  on the New South Wales south coast.
American maxi Sayonara and Sydney  boat Brindabella reported they were about 50 kilometers (30 miles)  offshore while Marchioness was a couple of miles further inshore.
In fourth spot was Australian maxi Wild Thing.
The three leaders covered  105 nautical miles in the first 7 1-2 hours of the race.
Propelled  for the most part by favorable northerly breezes, the leaders rocketed  along at an average speed of 14 knots in the first part of the 630-nautical-mile  race to Hobart on the island state of Tasmania.
The fast early pace  put the leaders well on schedule to eclipse Morning Glory's 1996 race  record but that was before the far tougher conditions forecast for  overnight Saturday night.
Morning Glory, a German maxi, broke the  21-year-old race record two years ago, arriving in Hobart 2 days,  14 hours, seven minutes and 10 seconds after she left Sydney.
While  the annual event started in friendly and favorable northeasterly breezes,  the 115-strong fleet reported cloudier conditions as it moved down  the coast.
The yachts were bracing for a tough night with thunderstorms  predicted ahead of a west-southwesterly change expected to lash the  south coast by Sunday morning.
Earlier, a crowd of around 300,000  people on the Sydney headlands and water witnessed the start of the  annual blue water classic.
Sayonara took the initial honors when she  beat Brindabella though Sydney heads, but the 1997 line honors winner  drew level when the American maxi's spinnaker blew out and had to  be replaced.
A major search was under way in Bass Strait off Australia's southeast  coast on Sunday night for an injured crewman swept overboard during  the Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race.
The Australian Maritime Safety Authority  (AMSA) said it had alerted all shipping in the Strait as high winds  and huge seas smash into the remnants of the 115-boat fleet.
The Australian  Navy has sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision and heat-seeking  equipment to search the area and may send the frigate HMAS Newcastle  into the area Monday morning morning from Sydney.
An AMSA spokesman  said they were alerted that the 13-meter Sydney yacht Sword of Orion  had been rolled in the heavy seas, with several crewmen being injured,  including the unidentified man lost overboard.
Another crewman has  a broken leg.
The yacht, which has a crew of 11, was halfway across  Bass Strait heading towards Hobart, capital of the island state of  Tasmania and the finish line in the annual race.
The ANSA spokesman  said search conditions were ``atrocious.''
Earlier, as winds gusting  to 80 knots and seas of 35 feet caused havoc to the fleet, several  rescues took place.
A police helicopter rescued a yachtsman swept  overboard when the Victorian yacht Kingurra was rolled over in huge  seas 19 nautical miles south of Gabo Island.
John Campbell, an American,  was in the water for about 40 minutes and was suffering from hypothermia  when he was winched to safety by senior constable Barry Barclay, who  dropped into 20-foot seas to secure Campbell.
The Victorian state  police Air Wing used an infra-red night vision system to find Campbell  and the Navy Sea King is using the same equipment to try to find the  man lost from Sword of Orion.
Another helicopter lifted the entire  crew of 12 from the dismasted VC Offshore Stand Aside.
Several crew  members were injured in the dismasting, with one losing several fingers  and another suffering head injuries.
A total of 37 yachts have been  forced to retire from the 630-nautical-mile race, many having been  dismasted or suffering injuries to crew.
Meanwhile, American maxi  Sayonara is narrowly ahead of last year's line winner Brindabella.
Although the two were forced to reduce sail and cut speed, they were  still well inside the race record for the 630-nautical-mile race of  2 days, 14 hours, seven minutes and 10 seconds set by German maxi  Morning Glory in 1996.
(djp)
Two yacht crew members are dead, three yachts remain missing and rescue  resources were stretched to the limit Monday as huge seas and gale-force  winds continued to batter the Sydney-to-Hobart race fleet.
A helicopter  rescue team flew to a spot about 50 nautical miles off the far south  New South Wales town of Merimbula early Monday morning.
Two crew found  dead on the stricken 40-foot vessel Business Post Naiad were left  behind while seven colleagues were winched aboard the helicopter and  flown to Merimbula Hospital, he said.
The deaths were confirmed by  an Australian Search and Rescue Coordination Center spokesman in Canberra  a short time later.
Neither organization was able to say how the sailors  died or give details on the injuries suffered by surviving crewmen.
Three yachts remain missing and there was no sign of a sailor swept  off the Sword of Orion when the boat rolled in wild seas on Sunday  night.
The missing boats are veteran cutter Winston Churchill, which  sailed in the inaugural 1945 race, B-52 and Solo Globe Challenger.
A major search involving Australia's navy continued Monday morning  for those missing.
Race spokesman Peter Campbell said it was not known  how long the sailor washed overboard could survive in the water.
``It's  supposition.
We had John Quinn survive for 5 1-2 hours in 1993 and  that was in the middle of the night in very severe conditions,'' Campbell  said.
Despite the horrendous conditions it was unlikely the race would  be called off, he said.
``It does say in the instructions that it  is the sole responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide  whether he continues in the race or retires,'' he said.
The Australian  Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA) has alerted all shipping in Bass  Strait as high winds and huge seas smash into the remnants of the  115-boat fleet.
An AMSA spokesman said they were alerted that the  30-foot Sydney yacht Sword of Orion had rolled in heavy seas near  Gabo Island about 450 kilometers (280 miles) east of Melbourne.
Several  crewmen were injured including one with a broken leg.
The yacht, which  has a crew of 11, was halfway across Bass Strait when it overturned.
The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision and heat-seeking  equipment to search the area and the frigate HMAS Newcastle was on  its way to the area.
Earlier, as winds gusting to 80 knots and seas  of 35 feet caused havoc to the fleet, several rescues took place.
A police helicopter rescued a yachtsman swept overboard when the Victorian  yacht Kingurra was rolled over in huge seas 19 nautical miles south  of Gabo Island.
John Campbell, an American, was in the water for about  40 minutes and was suffering from hypothermia when he was winched  to safety by senior constable Barry Barclay, who dropped into large  swells to secure Campbell.
A total of 37 yachts have been forced to  retire from the 630-nautical-mile race, many having been dismasted  or suffering injuries to crew.
Meanwhile, American maxi Sayonara was  narrowly ahead of last year's line winner Brindabella.
Although the  two were forced to reduce sail and cut speed, they were still well  inside the race record for the 630-nautical-mile race of 2 days, 14  hours, seven minutes and 10 seconds set by German maxi Morning Glory  in 1996.
(djp)
Two yacht crew members are dead, three yachts remain missing and rescue  resources were stretched to the limit Monday as huge seas and gale-force  winds continued to batter the Sydney-to-Hobart race fleet.
A helicopter  rescue team flew to a spot about 50 nautical miles off the far south  New South Wales town of Merimbula early Monday morning.
Two crew found  dead on the stricken 40-foot vessel Business Post Naiad were left  behind while seven colleagues were winched aboard the helicopter and  flown to Merimbula Hospital, he said.
The deaths were confirmed by  an Australian Search and Rescue Coordination Center spokesman in Canberra  a short time later.
Neither organization was able to say how the sailors  died or give details on the injuries suffered by surviving crewmen.
Three yachts remain missing and there was no sign of a sailor swept  off the Sword of Orion when the boat rolled in wild seas on Sunday  night.
The missing boats are veteran cutter Winston Churchill, which  sailed in the inaugural 1945 race, B-52 and Solo Globe Challenger.
A major search involving Australia's navy continued Monday morning  for those missing.
Race spokesman Peter Campbell said it was not known  how long the sailor washed overboard could survive in the water.
``It's  supposition.
We had John Quinn survive for 5 1-2 hours in 1993 and  that was in the middle of the night in very severe conditions,'' Campbell  said.
Despite the horrendous conditions it was unlikely the race would  be called off, he said.
``It does say in the instructions that it  is the sole responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide  whether he continues in the race or retires,'' he said.
The Australian  Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA) has alerted all shipping in Bass  Strait as high winds and huge seas smash into the remnants of the  115-boat fleet.
An AMSA spokesman said they were alerted that the  30-foot Sydney yacht Sword of Orion had rolled in heavy seas near  Gabo Island about 450 kilometers (280 miles) east of Melbourne.
Several  crewmen were injured including one with a broken leg.
The yacht, which  has a crew of 11, was halfway across Bass Strait when it overturned.
The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision and heat-seeking  equipment to search the area and the frigate HMAS Newcastle was on  its way to the area.
Earlier, as winds gusting to 80 knots and seas  of 35 feet caused havoc to the fleet, several rescues took place.
A police helicopter rescued a yachtsman swept overboard when the Victorian  yacht Kingurra was rolled over in huge seas 19 nautical miles south  of Gabo Island.
John Campbell, an American, was in the water for about  40 minutes and was suffering from hypothermia when he was winched  to safety by senior constable Barry Barclay, who dropped into large  swells to secure Campbell.
A total of 37 yachts have been forced to  retire from the 630-nautical-mile race, many having been dismasted  or suffering injuries to crew.
Meanwhile, American maxi Sayonara was  narrowly ahead of last year's line winner Brindabella.
Although the  two were forced to reduce sail and cut speed, they were still well  inside the race record for the 630-nautical-mile race of 2 days, 14  hours, seven minutes and 10 seconds set by German maxi Morning Glory  in 1996.
(djp)
Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in the Sydney-to-Hobart  race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving two yachts  missing.
The two dead were found on the 40-foot vessel Business Post  Naiad, about 100 kilometers (60 miles) off the New South Wales state  town of Merimbula, according to the Australian Search and Rescue Coordination  was  found mid-morning Monday and was making its way towards Eden on the  New South Wales coast, an AusSAR spokesman said.
The nine crew on  board were thought to be safe and the vessel was sailing unassisted.
The spokesman said no word had been received on the fate of the Winston  Churchill or the sailor swept from the deck of Sword of Orion on Sunday  night.
As of mid-morning Monday, he had been in the water for 15 hours.
The yacht, which has a crew of 11, was halfway across Bass Strait  when it overturned.
The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter with night-vision  and heat-seeking equipment to search the area and the frigate HMAS  Newcastle was on its way to the area.
Rescuers in more than 30 search  aircraft were similarly unsure of the whereabouts and condition of  Solo Globe and its crew.
Seven others on board the Business Post Naiad  were put aboard a helicopter and flown to Merimbula Hospital, the  center said.
The center was unable to identify the sailors, say how  they died or give details on the injuries sustained by surviving crewmen.
There were unconfirmed reports that one of the dead sailors was British.
With winds gusting to 80 knots and seas swelling to 10 meters (35  feet), the race continued even as rescue teams searched for the three  missing yachts.
Race spokesman Peter Campbell said it was not known  how long the sailor washed overboard could survive in the water.
``It's  supposition,'' Campbell said.
``We had John Quinn survive for 5 1-2  hours in 1993 and that was in the middle of the night in very severe  conditions.''
A police helicopter rescued a yachtsman swept overboard  when Kingurra rolled over 35 kilometers (22 miles) south of Gabo Island.
John Campbell, an American, was in the water for about 40 minutes  and had hypothermia when he was taken to safety by Senior Constable  Barry Barclay, who dropped into large swells to secure Campbell.
Despite  the conditions, Peter Campbell said it was unlikely the race would  be called off.
``It does say in the instructions that it is the sole  responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide whether he continues  in the race or retires,'' he said.
The Australian Maritime Safety  Authority (AMSA) alerted all shipping in Bass Strait as high winds  and huge seas smash into the remnants of the 115-boat fleet.
A total  of 37 yachts have been forced out of the 1,160-kilometer (725-mile)  race.
Many lost their masts or have injured crew.
The American maxi  Sayonara was narrowly ahead of last year's winner, Brindabella.
Although  the two were forced to reduce sail and cut speed, they were still  well inside the race record of 2 days, 14 hours, 7 minutes, 10 seconds,  set by German maxi Morning Glory in 1996.
Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in Australia's Sydney-to-Hobart  race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving three yachts  missing.
The two dead were found on the 40-foot (12-meter) vessel  Business Post Naiad, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) off the New South  Wales town of Merimbula, according to the Australian Search and Rescue  Coordination Center in Canberra.
Seven others on board were taken  to a hospital by helicopter, the center said.
The center was unable  to identify the sailors, say how they died or give details on the  injuries sustained by surviving crewmen.
With winds gusting to 90  mph (145 kph) and seas swelling to 35 feet (10 meters), the race continued  even as rescue teams searched for the missing vessels.
There was no  sign of a sailor swept off the Sword of Orion when the 30-foot (9-meter)  boat rolled in wild seas Sunday night near Gabo Island, about 280  miles (450 kilometers) east of Melbourne.
The yacht, which has a crew  of 11, was halfway across Bass Strait when it overturned.
Race spokesman  Peter Campbell said it was not known how long the sailor could survive  in the water.
The missing boats are veteran cutter Winston Churchill,  which sailed in the inaugural 1945 race; B-52; and Solo Globe Challenger.
Despite the conditions, Campbell said it was unlikely the race would  be called off.
``It does say in the instructions that it is the sole  responsibility of the skipper of each yacht to decide whether he continues  in the race or retires,'' he said.
A total of 37 yachts have been  forced out of the 1,160-kilometer (725-mile) race.
Many lost their  masts or have injured crew.
Gale-force winds and high seas battered yachts in Australia's Sydney-to-Hobart  race Monday, killing at least two crew members and leaving three yachts  missing.
The two dead were found on the 40-foot (12-meter) vessel  Business Post Naiad, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) off the New South  Wales town of Merimbula, according to the Australian Search and Rescue  Coordination Center in Canberra.
Seven others on board were taken  to a hospital by helicopter, the center said.
The center was unable  to identify the sailors, say how they died or give details on the  injuries sustained by surviving crewmen.
One of the missing yachts  was found mid-morning Monday and was making its way toward  Eden on the New South Wales coast, AusSAR said.
The nine crew on board  were thought to be safe and the vessel was sailing unassisted.
With  winds gusting to 90 mph (145 kph) and seas swelling to 35 feet (10  meters), the race continued even as rescue teams searched for the  missing vessels.
AusSAR said no word had been received on the fate  of the Winston Churchill or the sailor swept from the deck of Sword  of Orion on Sunday night.
As of mid-morning Monday, he had been in  the water for 15 hours.
The yacht, which has a crew of 11, was halfway  across Bass Strait when it overturned.
The Navy sent a Sea King helicopter  with night-vision and heat-seeking equipment to search the area and  the frigate HMAS Newcastle was on its way to the area.
The missing  boats are veteran cutter Winston Churchill, which sailed in the inaugural  1945 race and Solo Globe Challenger.
Despite the conditions, Race  spokesman Peter Campbell said it was unlikely the race would be called  off.
``It does say in the instructions that it is the sole responsibility  of the skipper of each yacht to decide whether he continues in the  race or retires,'' he said.
A total of 37 yachts have been forced  out of the 1,160-kilometer (725-mile) race.
Many lost their masts  or have injured crew.
Two sailors died and 15 others were missing after gale-force winds  and high seas battered yachts in the Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race Monday.
``There are two that have been confirmed deceased which is tragedy  because in the 54-year history of the race I think there's only two  people who have died in it before,'' said Australian Maritime Safety  Authority spokesman David Gray.
The two dead were found on the 40-foot  vessel Business Post Naiad, about 100 kilometers (60 miles) off the  New South Wales state town of Merimbula.
Gray said Business Post Naiad  owner-skipper Bruce Guy and first-time race participant Phil Skeggs  were killed.
Both men were from Launceston in northern Tasmania.
Guy  suffered a heart attack during one of the two occasions the yacht  rolled, Gray said, while Skeggs drowned when he was unable to free  himself from a safety harness.
Their bodies were left on board the  boat but attempts were being made to recover them as soon as possible.
Race officials said Guy sailed in two previous Sydney to Hobart yacht  races.
Grave fears were held for the safety of the nine crew on missing  cutter Winston Churchill, while contact has been lost with the five  crew aboard Solo Globe.
British sailor Glyn Charles was swept off  the Sword of Orion on Sunday night when the boat rolled in wild seas.
At 12:30 p.m. local time (0130 GMT) Monday Charles had been missing  for about 17 hours.
Race officials said Charles had sailed in four  Admiral's Cups and represented Britain in the Star Class at the 1996  Atlanta Olympics where he finished 11th.
Race spokesman Peter Campbell  said it was not known how long Gray could survive in the water.
``It's  supposition,'' Campbell said.
``We had John Quinn survive for 5 1-2  hours in 1993 and that was in the middle of the night in very severe  conditions.''
Gray said about 56 sailors had been winched to safety.
``There's just many many injuries on those yachts that got knocked  one rolled over twice,'' Gray said.
``They've got hand, leg, facial injuries, they really got pounded  yesterday.''
One of the missing yachts _ B-52 _ was found mid-morning  Monday and was making its way towards Eden on the New South Wales  coast.
The nine crew on board were thought to be safe and the vessel  was sailing unassisted.
American John Campbell was rescued by a police  helicopter after being swerpt overboard when Kingurra rolled over  35 kilometers (22 miles) south of Gabo Island.
Campbell was in the  water for about 40 minutes and had hypothermia when he was taken to  safety by Senior Constable Barry Barclay, who dropped into large swells  to secure Campbell.
``I was definitely worried,'' Campbell told United  States television in Seattle.
``There was a point I didn't think I  was going to survive.''
``(Barclay) came down into the water only  about 5, 10 feet away from me and I swam to him pretty quicky.
I just  threw my arms into the harness and they hoisted me up.''
At least  37 yachts have been forced out of the 1,160-kilometer (725-mile) race.
The Australian Maritime Safety Authority alerted all shipping in Bass  Strait as high winds and huge seas smash into the remnants of the  115-boat fleet.
The American maxi Sayonara was narrowly ahead of last  year's winner, Brindabella.
Although the two were forced to reduce  sail and cut speed, they were still well inside the race record of  2 days, 14 hours, 7 minutes, 10 seconds, set by German maxi Morning  Glory in 1996.
becoming  the third fatality in the Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race _ while three  others remained missing in rough seas after nightfall Monday.
Robin  Poke, a spokesman for the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA),  admitted it was unlikely the 33-year-old Charles could survive more  than 24 hours at sea after being washed off Sword of Orion on Sunday  night.
``He has been out there in 10-meter (30-feet) waves and 80-kilometer  (50-mile) winds,'' Poke said Monday.
``He will be a superman if he  makes it.''
Charles sailed in four Admiral's Cups and represented  Britain in the Star Class at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics where he finished  11th.
Two sailors died after gale-force winds and high seas battered  the entrants.
Four members from the veteran cutter Winston Churchill  were winched to safety from a liferaft before dark Monday.
Two more  crew from the Winston Churchill were plucked from a second liferaft  late Monday night, but three others who had been aboard the liferaft  were still missing.
``We are unsure about what has happened to the  other three, it appears they were washed out of the liferaft,'' a  spokesman for the authority said.
The two dead, both Australians,  were found on the 40-foot vessel Business Post Naiad, about 100 kilometers  (60 miles) off the New South Wales state town of Merimbula.
The yacht's  owner-skipper Bruce Guy and first-time race participant Phil Skeggs  were killed.
Guy suffered a heart attack during one of the two occasions  the yacht rolled while Skeggs drowned when he was unable to free himself  from a safety harness.
Their bodies were left on board the boat but  attempts were being made to recover them as soon as possible, rescue  officials said.
``Dad loved sailing,'' said Bruce Guy's son Mark Guy.
``He loved the competition.
He also loved a beer and a talk after  the race.
Dad simply loved life.''
Winston Churchill skipper Richard  Winning was one of the four rescued.
``The worst thing of the whole  affair was that after we got into the life raft and became separated  from the others, the damned thing capsized twice on these great seas  at night which is bloody frightening, let me tell you,'' Winning said.
``You have got four of us underneath this little canopy and the next  thing is you are upside down.
I wouldn't want to have spent another  night out there.''
The first recorded death in the race, which started  in 1945, was in 1984 when a 72-year-old yachtsman was washed overboard  from Yahoo 2 and presumed drowned.
In 1989, a 58-year-old man died  from head injuries on the yacht Flying Colours after a 45-knot gale  off the southern NSW coast snapped the boat's mast.
AMSA spokesman  David Gray said about 50 sailors had been winched to safety in this  year's race.
``There's just many, many injuries on those yachts that  got knocked down.
A lot of them rolled over _ one rolled over twice,''  Gray said.
``They've got hand, leg, facial injuries, they really got  pounded yesterday.''
American John Campbell was rescued by a police  helicopter after being swerpt overboard when Kingurra rolled over  35 kilometers (22 miles) south of Gabo Island.
Campbell was in the  water for about 40 minutes and had hypothermia when he was taken to  safety by Senior Constable Barry Barclay, who dropped into large swells  to secure Campbell.
``I was definitely worried,'' Campbell told United  States television in Seattle.
``There was a point I didn't think I  was going to survive.''
``(Barclay) came down into the water only  about 5, 10 feet away from me and I swam to him pretty quickly.
I  just threw my arms into the harness and they hoisted me up.''
About  half of the 115-yacht fleet have been forced out of the 1,160-kilometer  (725-mile) race.
The American maxi Sayonara was narrowly ahead of  last year's winner, Brindabella, and expected to cross the line Tuesday.
After discarding a suggested change of orbit, the Russian Space Agency went ahead with plans to launch its Zarya module of the international space station on Nov. 20, 1998.
Although delayed for a day, U.S. plans to launch the space shuttle Endeavour carrying the U.S. module Unity and six astronauts were carried out on Dec. 4.
The astronauts' job was to connect Unity with the already-orbiting Zarya as the first step in assembling 100 major components of the planned space station.
Using the shuttle's 50-foot robot arm, the two modules were joined setting the stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts the next day to attach electrical connectors and cables.
The International Space Station when completed will have a million pound mass and be longer than a football field.
It will house up to seven space explorers.
The initial assembly of space station components involves linking the US Unity, carried into space by the shuttle Endeavour, with the Russian Zarya.
The Russians had asked for a different launch profile in order to be able to transfer equipment from its MIR station, but that was not possible.
Endeavour astronauts successfully completed the complicated maneuvers to join the two space objects.
NASA estimates that 43 more launches will be required to completely assemble the 16-nation space station.
On Friday the shuttle Endeavor carried six astronauts into orbit to start building an international space station.
The launch occurred after Russia and U.S. officials agreed not to delay the flight in order to orbit closer to MIR, and after a last-minute alarm forced a postponement.
On Sunday astronauts joining the Russian-made Zarya control module cylinder with the American-made module to form a 70,000 pounds mass 77 feet long.
NASA estimates 43 more launches and 159 more space walks are needed to assemble the complex.
When completed the 16-nation space station will be longer than a football field.
It will be used to study adaptation to space flight.
Russia and NASA jointly decided against a Russian cost-cutting proposal to orbit the 2nd space station, a 16-country cooperative project, closer to Mir, citing complexity, risk, and bad sun angles.
After 5 years of assembly, the research station will house 7 people.
A 12-day shuttle mission will attach the US Unity module to the Russian Zarya, already in orbit.
Thursday's launch was delayed by a pressure drop.
A 2nd attempt Friday was perfect.
Unity was attached to Zarya in a blind docking using cameras and computer images.
Electrical and cable connections come next.
Unity will serve as a passageway for future modules.
Two Zarya antennas failed to deploy.
For the second day in a row, astronauts boarded space shuttle Endeavour  on Friday for liftoff on NASA's first space station construction flight.
``Let's go do this,'' said commander Robert Cabana.
``Amen,'' replied  a launch controller.
Rain and cloudy skies were once again a threat.
But NASA was confident the master alarm in Endeavour's cockpit would  behave; it went off with just 4{ minutes to go in the countdown Thursday,  forcing a delay.
NASA has only five minutes or less each day to launch  Endeavour in order to meet up with the first space station part, which  was put in orbit two weeks ago by the Russians.
The shuttle contains  the second station component.
The master alarm blared and red lights  flashed just before the shuttle was to lift off early Thursday.
By  the time controllers traced the problem to a momentary drop in hydraulic  they had missed  the cutoff by a second or two.
``Sure, it's frustrating,'' said Bill  Readdy, shuttle program director and a veteran shuttle commander.
``But we do things right.
We do things by the book, and we're not  going to cut any corners even if it means just shaving a second or  two.''
The six astronauts crawled out of the shuttle, and two threw  up their hands.
Cabana held up his thumb and index finger a half-inch  apart: ``We were that close.''
The problem was confined to one of  Endeavour's three hydraulic pressure units.
The pressure dropped just  long enough to trigger the alarm, evidently because of a sensitive  switch, then returned to normal.
NASA engineers spent the day examining  the problem, but found nothing wrong with any of the systems and were  confident it would not reoccur.
Endeavour's flight is already a year  late because of a cash crunch in Russia, one of NASA's partners in  building the international space station.
The one-day delay cost NASA  about $600,000, mostly in fuel and overtime pay.
Aboard Endeavour  is an American-made connecting passageway named Unity.
The astronauts  will use the shuttle robot arm to capture the Russian space station  piece and attach it to Unity.
Then, two spacewalkers will hook up  all the electrical connections and cables between the two cylinders,  and attach handrails and tools for future crews.
Until the alarm sounded,  it looked as though the weather would be the only problem.
Rain and  clouds moved in from the Atlantic 1{ hours before liftoff, but drifted  away with minutes to spare.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright  and other dignitaries from around the world had gathered in the drizzle  to see Endeavour and its crew off.
``Here we have 16 countries cooperating  on a venture to the future,'' said Albright, who was expected back  for Friday's attempt.
``This is a good investment.''
Endeavour and its astronauts closed in Sunday to capture the first  piece of the international space station, the Russian-made Zarya control  module that had to be connected to the Unity chamber aboard the shuttle.
Stacking the two giant cylinders 240 miles above the Earth was considered  the most difficult part of the mission.
The job fell to Nancy Currie,  the shuttle crane operator who had deftly hoisted and repositioned  Unity in the cargo bay on Saturday.
The two station pieces are so  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the other with a combined  mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her crewmates were going to  have to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views, rather  than direct line of sight.
Such a ``blind'' docking had never been  attempted before.
Mission Control gave the astronauts plenty of time  for the tasks.
``The main thing I've tried to do for the last two  years working on this flight is make sure we have time.
We have margin  on everything,'' said flight director Bob Castle.
Before beginning  their final approach to Zarya _ Russian for Sunrise _ the shuttle's  six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket launched  last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots to  fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between Endeavour  and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles from the  orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably a little  too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger worry, by  far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya, and its coupling  with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never before been  assigned to handle an object as massive as the 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakhstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity will serve  as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
In case  Zarya and Unity could not be connected with the robot arm, two spacewalking  astronauts would have to manually fit them together.
The astronauts  would be going out anyway Monday to attach electrical connectors and  cables between the two components.
In all, three spacewalks were planned  for Endeavour's 12-day flight.
NASA estimates 43 more launches and  159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew of the good  ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The  240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
The union  _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the  stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical  connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission Control  thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned and gave  the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything occurred  more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from a piece of  space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their final approach  to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket  launched last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots  to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between  Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles  from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably  a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger  worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya,  and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never  before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called  down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian  flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully deployed  in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't  be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only other problem  was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  moment the two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew  of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
The union  _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the  stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical  connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission Control  thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned and gave  the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything occurred  more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from a piece of  space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their final approach  to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket  launched last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots  to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between  Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles  from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably  a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger  worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya,  and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never  before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called  down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian  flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully deployed  in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't  be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only other problem  was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  moment the two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew  of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
It took several  tries, however, for Zarya and Unity to be pulled tightly together.
The docking ring between them would not retract properly; Mission  Control quickly traced the problem to the attached robot arm and asked  the crew to release its hold on the docked Zarya.
That did the trick.
The union _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime  _ set the stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach  electrical connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission  Control thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned  and gave the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything  occurred more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from  a piece of space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their  final approach to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of  a chunk of a rocket launched last month from California.
Mission Control  ordered the pilots to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three  miles between Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total  of five miles from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have  been ``probably a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control  said.
The bigger worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture  of Zarya, and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot  arm had never before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot,  44,000-pound Zarya, a power and propulsion module that was launched  from Kazakstan on Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity  and steering for the fledgling space station until a permanent control  module can be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture,  Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed  as Russian flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully  deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that  system won't be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only  other problem was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement  part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  moment the two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew  of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
It took several  tries, however, for Zarya and Unity to be pulled tightly together.
The docking ring between them would not retract properly; Mission  Control quickly traced the problem to the attached robot arm and asked  the crew to release its hold on the docked Zarya.
That did the trick.
The union _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime  _ set the stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach  electrical connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission  Control thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned  and gave the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything  occurred more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from  a piece of space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their  final approach to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of  a chunk of a rocket launched last month from California.
Mission Control  ordered the pilots to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three  miles between Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total  of five miles from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have  been ``probably a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control  said.
The bigger worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture  of Zarya, and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot  arm had never before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot,  44,000-pound Zarya, a power and propulsion module that was launched  from Kazakstan on Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity  and steering for the fledgling space station until a permanent control  module can be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture,  Cabana called down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed  as Russian flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully  deployed in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that  system won't be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only  other problem was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement  part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
NASA and the Russian Space Agency have agreed to set  aside a last-minute Russian request to launch an international space  station into an orbit closer to Mir, officials announced Friday.
While  putting the new station closer to Russia's 12-year-old Mir station  would make it easier to transfer equipment and supplies from the old  outpost to the new one, the request came too late to be acted on,  said Randy Brinkley, NASA's space station program manager.
NASA was  surprised last week when Russia's prime station contractor proposed  the orbital position change just two-and-a-half weeks before launch  of the first part of the new station.
Delaying the Nov. 20 flight  by 10 hours to match the orbits would have forced similar shifts in  the subsequent assembly flights, and resulted in potentially unfavorable  sun angles on the solar-powered station, engineers said.
``We have  mutually concluded that it would not be prudent to make these changes,''  Brinkley said during a news conference held at the Johnson Space Center  in Houston.
``It added technical complexity and risks to the mission  that were not justified.''
The decision, which followed ``frank and  candid'' discussions between the two partners, was not imposed by  the United States, he said.
``The conclusions were mutual,'' Brinkley  said.
``Both sides concluded that it did not make sense.''
The Russians,  struggling to find money for their space program with their nation  in economic collapse, had said they wanted to transfer thousands of  pounds of newer equipment and scientific instruments from Mir as an  economy move.
However, some critics questioned the Russians' motives,  wondering if the requested orbital change was part of plan to delay  the decommissioning and destruction of Mir, which the Russians have  agreed to do next summer.
The Russians have so little money that the  United States and other partners in the international station fear  that money spent on Mir will prevent Russia from meeting its obligations  with the new project.
``The Mir competes with the international space  station for very critical resources and for funding,'' Brinkley said.
NASA will consider ideas for salvaging Mir's research equipment to  use on the international space station, he said, but only if it does  not interfere with assembling the new station.
The United States and  15 other nations plan to begin building the new station in orbit next  week when the Russians launch a module that will supply power and  propulsion during the early stages of the five-year construction period.
The space shuttle Endeavor is to follow on Dec. 3 with the second  station part, a U.S.-built connecting passageway that attaches to  the first module.
A last-minute alarm forced NASA to halt Thursday's launching of the  space shuttle Endeavour, on a mission to start assembling the international  space station.
Another attempt for Endeavour and its crew of six astronauts  is scheduled for Friday at 3:36 a.m.
This was the first time in three  years, and 19 flights, that a shuttle countdown had been stopped after  the spaceship was fueled and the crew aboard the craft and ready to  go.
The uncommon delay prompted frowns and furrowed brows here, although  officials stressed that it was entirely warranted.
``We want to err  on the conservative side,'' Ralph Roe, launch director at the Kennedy  Space Center, said at a news conference after the sudden halt of the  countdown just 19 seconds before liftoff.
Everything had been going  smoothly for a rare nighttime launching, set for 3:58 on Thursday  morning.
The weather, forecast to be iffy, turned out to be fine,  and the sky was alight with a nearly full moon.
But the length of   only 10 minutes.
That brevity was a result of Endeavour's having to  rendezvous with a space-station part that Russia put into orbit last  month.
The show-stopper arose about four minutes before liftoff when  the computer in the space shuttle set off a master alarm.
Controllers  studied the data and discovered a momentary pressure drop on one of  the hydraulic systems that control the movements of the shuttle's  engines and its rudder and other flight surfaces.
Officials eventually  decided that the pressure drop was insignificant, and they resolved  to press ahead.
But by then it was too late: time had run out for  one of the procedures needed to keep the shuttle's fuel supercold.
So the countdown was aborted just 19 seconds from blastoff.
The six  astronauts began to emerge from the shuttle an hour later and ultimately  headed for bed to rest up for another attempt early Friday.
The planet's most daring construction job began Friday as the shuttle  Endeavour carried into orbit six astronauts and the first U.S.-built  part of an international space station that is expected to cost more  than $100 billion.
After a last-minute alarm on the shuttle forced  a postponement early Thursday, the launch went off flawlessly at 3:36  Friday morning, right on schedule.
The night sky was clear, and the  moon full.
With a roar, Endeavour made its fiery ascent and briefly  turned the Florida coastline from night to day.
More than five minutes  and 500 miles later, the spaceship's main engines could still be seen  in the distance, twinkling like a new star.
On their 12-day flight,  Endeavour's astronauts are to locate a Russian part already in orbit,  grasp it with the shuttle's robot arm and attach the new U.S. module.
Wielding tools hundreds of miles above Earth, working methodically  in the cold void, the astronauts will be starting a five-year assembly  that is likely to make the construction of the Pyramids and the great  cathedrals look like child's play.
Construction of the station, which  will be a research facility, will require an estimated 160 space walks,  which, for safety reasons, will always be done by two people.
When  complete, the international space station, dominated by solar power  arrays, will cover an area equal to that of two football fields.
Modules  of interconnected laboratories and living quarters for up to seven  astronauts are to form a habitat equal to that of two 747 jetliners.
The station's batteries alone, if lined up, would extend a half-mile.
The project entails high risk, because of the technical difficulty  of putting all this together in the unforgiving environment of space,  along with the dangers inherent in flying the space shuttle to the  construction site.
The work is further complicated by international  politics and worries about money.
The Russians, whose participation  in the partnership clinched the post-Cold War deal five years ago,  are now a wild card.
Moscow's economic and political woes have left  Western officials unsure of its ability and willingness to come up  with its share of money and technology.
At the same time, the station's  costs are rising, and its critics among scientists worry that its  appetite for money will consume their own federal financing.
The project's  total cost is a subject of debate, but the most credible estimates  now put the price of assembly and of operation for a decade, the station's  estimated lifetime, at $110 billion.
Of that, American taxpayers are  to spend roughly $96 billion, and the project's 15 foreign partners  about $14 billion.
The station is intended to be a grand laboratory  where, in the environment of weightlessness, investigators can develop  new materials and new drugs and explore physiology's remaining mysteries,  in part so that humans may someday know how to adapt for long space  flight to other worlds.
Friday, in any case, little was heard about  the project but praise.
``Great show, Endeavour,'' mission control  in Houston radioed to the six astronauts as the shuttle went into  orbit.
At the Florida spaceport, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright  lauded the launching team and the new venture.
``That was truly, truly  fantastic,'' she told the team after the liftoff.
And it was important,  she added, to have so many nations ``working together on the kinds  of issues that the 21st century is going to be concerned with.''
``So  my congratulations to all of you,'' the secretary said.
``Stupendous  work.''
The main cargo Thursday was the Unity module, the first U.S.-built  station part.
Small compared with the giants to come in three dozen  shuttle flights during assembly, the unit is 18 feet long, weighs  13 tons and is to serve as a connecting hub for other modules.
Saturday,  one of the astronauts, Lt. Col. Nancy Currie of the Army, is to have  the shuttle's robot arm hoist Unity from the payload bay and secure  it to Endeavour's docking system, moving the unit from a horizontal  to a vertical position.
Then, Sunday, the astronauts are to rendezvous  with the module known as Zarya, or Sunrise, which Russia launched  into orbit from Kazakhstan on Nov. 20.
Financed by the United States  but built in Russia, Zarya, 41 feet long, is be a kind of tugboat  for the embryonic station, furnishing power and propulsion as well  as communication and rendezvous abilities.
When Endeavour's payload  bay is within 10 feet of Zarya, Colonel Currie is to reach out with  the robot arm and pull the Russian module into position over Unity.
The mechanical arm has never before moved anything so big.
Zarya,  while completely weightless in space, has 21 tons of mass.
If mishandled,  it can crush and kill.
As Col. Currie holds Zarya steady, Endeavour's  commander, Col. Robert Cabana of the Marine Corps, a veteran of three  space flights, is to nudge the shuttle forward to join the two station  pieces together.
When mated with special attachments, Zarya and Unity  will form the station's first element, 63 feet long and 78 feet wide  out to the tips of the solar arrays.
Starting Monday, a pair of space-walking  astronauts are to hook up electrical connections and data cables between  the units, attach antennas and install tools and handrails for future  visitors.
The builders will be Col. Jerry Ross of the Air Force, 50,  and Dr. James Newman, 42, a physicist.
Their series of three space  walks will continue Wednesday and end Saturday, Dec. 12.
As construction  goes on outside, the astronauts inside Endeavour will be busy making  preparations to enter the new station through a connecting tunnel  and docking system.
Next Thursday, the crew will enter the embryonic  station for the first time, installing portable fans and lights.
Friday  they will again enter, to prepare for the arrival in 1999 of the next  major element, the first one both built and financed by Russia.
The  other astronauts on Endeavour are its pilot, Maj. Frederick Sturckow  of the Marine Corps, and a mission specialist, Sergei Krikalev of  the Russian Space Agency.
After separating from the new outpost, the  crew is to bring Endeavour back to the Kennedy Space Center on Dec.
15, with the mission length just shy of 12 days.
Gretchen McClain,  NASA's director in Washington for the international space station,  said in an interview here that its overall costs were actually small  for individual Americans.
Over its lifetime, she said, the annual  cost will equal that of a pizza and a soft drink for each of the nation's  96 million taxpayers.
U.S. costs for construction, she added, were  $24 billion, and for operations through the year 2012 were $10.4 billion,  for a total of $34.4 billion.
Most experts outside the agency consider  this figure ridiculously low because it ignores many billions of dollars  spent in early development work as well as the cost of numerous shuttle  flights, which run about $800 million apiece.
Following a series of intricate maneuvers and the skillful use of  the space shuttle Endeavour's robot arm, astronauts on Sunday joined  the first two of many segments that will form the international space  station.
The shuttle and its crew of six snared the Russian-made Zarya  control module after chasing it around the Earth in ever-closing orbits  throughout the day.
Less than an hour after a rendezvous 240 miles  above the Earth shortly before 6 p.m., Lt. Col. Nancy Currie of the  Army deftly used the 50-foot arm to grab the 40,000-pound cylinder  as the craft passed above Russia and to slowly pull it toward the  shuttle.
Seeing Zarya up close, Col. Robert Cabana of the Marines,  the shuttle commander, confirmed that two antennas had failed to deploy  from the module following its launch from Kazakhstan on Nov. 20.
There  were earlier indications that the antennas, which will be used later  by the station to manually assist spacecraft dockings, had not extended.
Currie took almost two hours to painstakingly move Zarya above the  American-made Unity docking port positioned in Endeavour's cargo bay.
When the two pieces were aligned within inches of one another, Cabana  fired small thruster rockets that raised the shuttle, allowing the  modules to clamp together.
The two station pieces, together measuring  about 77 feet from end to end and having a combined mass of 70,000  pounds, are the first of 100 major components to be united in space  over the next five years to form an orbiting outpost that would weigh  almost a million pounds and span an area the size of two football  fields.
More than 40 additional missions by U.S. shuttles and Russian  rockets will be used to haul all of the components and other supplies  into orbit, and astronauts from both nations are to spend almost 1,800  hours doing spacewalks to assemble the entire structure.
The spece  station is expected to cost its partnership of 16 nations more than  $40 billion just to construct.
Bringing the pieces together is only  the first step in mating them.
A pair of astronauts are to make three  spacewalks this week, the first on Monday, during which they will  hook up electrical and communications cables, remove covers, attach  handrails and perform other tasks to get the modules to work as one  unit.
The most difficult part of Sunday's mating of the $240 million  Zarya to the $300 million Unity was bringing them together after the  shuttle caught up with the Russian unit.
Currie had to use the Canadian-built  robot arm to place Zarya on top of Unity without being able to see  where the pieces joined.
Unity, raised in Endeavour's cargo bay on  Saturday, is so large that it blocked Currie's view of the mating  fixtures from the shuttle's windows.
She used views from remote cameras  and a computerized vision system built on the arm to estimate the  relative positions of the two large segments.
The computerized system  examined markings on both modules, computed their relationship to  one another using the marks and displayed the results on a laptop  computer.
``We've never done anything like this before,'' Currie said  before the flight, adding that she had practiced the difficult maneuver  more than 100 times over the last two years.
The flight of Endeavour,  which took off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., last Friday, had gone according  to plan until early Sunday, when mission control ordered the shuttle  to change its orbit slightly to avoid a piece of space debris.
Air  Force space debris trackers noted that the shuttle was to pass within  1.6 miles of a spent stage of an American booster rocket launched  last month.
Although this was considered a safe distance, shuttle  controllers decided to widen the separation to five miles as an extra  precaution.
Eleven countries were to adopt a common European currency, the euro, on Dec. 31, 1998.
In November and December there were various reactions.
France made moves toward a pan-European equity market.
Ten of the countries quickly cut interest rates causing fear of overheating in some economies.
In Denmark, which had earlier rejected the euro, a majority was now in favor.
And in faraway China, the euro was permitted in financial exchanges.
Whatever the outcome, the euro's birthday, Dec. 31, 1998, would be an historical date.
Some saw it as a step towards political union while others already considered themselves as citizens of Europe.
Eleven European nations are forming a "Euro zone".
Britain, Denmark, Sweden, and Greece are not part of it.
Danes favor joining.
The Euro became official for intergovernmental transfers on Dec 31, 1998, but bills and coins will not come until 2002.
The Paris, London, and Frankfurt stock exchanges have formed an alliance.
Euro nations cut interest rates and inflation fell to an average 0.9%.
China has authorized use of the Euro in trade.
The president of the European Central Bank warns that growth is slowing and that he plans to complete his term.
The EU monetary action has given rise to the new mobile, multi-lingual, non-nationalistic European.
France's offer to host a financial meeting for nine other European nations is seen as a precursor to a pan-European market.
It shows how the new currency, the euro, is reshaping Europe financially.
Eleven European nations lowered key interest rates in preparation for the conversion.
China made trading in euro official Monday when it accepted its use in trade and finance starting Jan. 1.
Denmark and Sweden may not join the euro for political reasons.
Some smaller nations may become unstable from a growing inflation decline.
A new generation, already cosmopolitan, won't be shocked.
The head of the new European Central Bank will not step down at half term.
On 1 Jan 1999, the euro, a currency serving 11 European nations, entered the world financial market.
As time grew short, questions remained over the pan-European market.
When the head--serving an 8-year term--of the European Central Bank, which governs the euro, expressed fear of a slowing economy, the nations simultaneously dropped interest rates, spurring the market.
Annual inflation rates also were encouraging.
Denmark, who along with Sweden and Britain eschewed the euro, was becoming interested.
As a step to a unified Europe, the euro will well serve the new, mobile, multi-lingual, business generation and could portend an economic giant.
In his most candid remarks yet on the economy, European Central Bank  President Wim Duisenberg said Friday that growth appears to be slowing  on  Jan. 1.
Despite an area-wide survey that suggested ``a moderation  in the pace of growth,'' Duisenberg said domestic demand will continue  to boost the economy.
He pointed also to a gradual improvement in  labor market conditions as supporting growth, as well as interest-rate  cuts toward the 3.3 percent level of the euro-zone's lowest rate countries.
Duisenberg, who spoke at an event in London, said the Dec. 1 and Dec.
22 meetings of the Central Bank's policy-making body will gauge the  outlook for inflation and the EU economy.
The bank, which will set  monetary policy for the currency bloc, has been under pressure from  politicians to keep interest rates low to help boost growth and create  jobs.
While inflation is at its lowest levels in decades _ just 1  percent in the euro-zone _ unemployment in the 11 nations remains  stubbornly high at 10.9 percent.
In a surprise move, nations adopting the new European currency, the  euro, dropped key interest rates Thursday, effectively setting the  rate that will be adopted throughout the euro zone on Jan. 1.
Ten  of the 11 countries adopting the euro dropped their interest rate  to 3 percent.
Italy dropped to 3.5 percent from 4 percent.
The coordinated  move was a key step in preparing for economic union.
Setting a common  interest rates had been a particularly contentious issue as center-left  governments in Germany and France pressed for lower rates to help  boost growth and cut unemployment, a stubborn 10.9 percent in the  euro zone.
European Central Bank chief, Wim Duisenberg, gave no hint  of the rate cuts during a speech in Brussels earlier Thursday, instead  suggesting that governments should reform rigid labor markets to create  jobs.
In Germany, the biggest economy in the future euro-zone, central  bankers cut the key interest rate to 3 percent from 3.3 percent.
Rates  before the cuts had varied throughout the future currency zone, from  3.69 percent in Ireland to 3.2 percent in Austria.
The European Central  Bank said in a statement from its Frankfurt headquarters that the  move was decided during a meeting Tuesday of its the policy-making  governing council.
The governing council comprises the 11 heads of  national central banks plus a six-member directorate, including the  bank president Duisenberg.
``The joint reduction in interest rates  has to be seen as a de facto decision on the level of interest rates  with which the (bank) will start ... monetary union,'' the statement  said, adding the 3-percent rate would be maintained ``for the foreseeable  future.''
In Germany, central bank president Hans Tietmeyer said the  move reflected the worsening outlook for European economies, and wasn't  a capitulation to political pressure Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine.
``It's not a dramatic step.
It wasn't in response to political pressure,''  Tietmeyer said, referring to Germany's cut.
``The coordinated rate  cut could lead to a reduction in the current pessimism and a reduction  in financial market turbulence,'' he said.
But Tietmeyer, head of  the bank on which the ECB is modeled, promised that the rate cut does  not signal the start of a volatile monetary policy.
``It's not a shift  from the Bundesbank's steady-hand policy,'' he said.
Growth in Europe  has been hit by the Asian and Russian economic crises and turbulence  on international financial markets.
Duisenberg has said growth in  the euro area countries next year will be about 2.5 percent, lower  than the 3 percent predicted earlier.
Making their first collective decision about monetary policy, the  11 European nations launching a common currency on Jan. 1 cut interest  rates Thursday in a surprise move that won market confidence.
Ten  of the 11 countries joining European economic union dropped their  key interest rate to 3 percent, with Portugal making the most significant  plunge, from 3.75 percent.
Austria made the smallest cut, from 3.2  percent.
The exception was Italy, which cut from 4 to 3.5 percent.
It is expected to drop to the common rate by the time the euro is  launched.
Unifying the interest rate is a critical step in laying  the groundwork for monetary union, and analysts generally expected  rates to settle at around the level of Germany's, 3.3 percent before  the cut, now 3 percent.
However, interest rate levels had become a  contentious political issue with center-left governments in Germany  and France pushing for rate cuts to help spur growth and combat unemployment,  stuck at 10.9 percent in the nations adopting the euro.
The head of  the European Central Bank that will set monetary policy for the euro  nations, Wim Duisenberg, again on Thursday suggested governments should  reform rigid labor markets to create jobs, and not pressure him to  gave  no hint that a rate drop was imminent, but made clear his resistance  to political pressure was as strong as ever.
So strong, in fact, that  Dutch Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm said he had feared the bank would  delay the decision.
``What had been feared was that, in order to prove  its independence, the ECB would go against its own analysis and would  wait longer, which would have been nonsensical,'' Zalm said.
Hans  Tietmeyer, who runs the German Bundesbank on which the ECB is modeled,  hinted the rate cut was designed to boost confidence in the new currency,  dampened by global economic crises and Europe's worsening outlook.
``The coordinated rate cut could lead to a reduction in the current  pessimism and a reduction in financial market turbulence,'' Tietmeyer  said.
The cuts seemed to have the desired impact.
Frankfurt's main  index closed up 2.1 percent, while France's was up 1.8 percent.
The  cuts also boosted markets in Spain, Belgium, Italy and even Britain,  which is not among the nations launching the euro.
``The reaction  is, `Oh good, they're doing a little bit to prop up the euro economy.'
But confidence has taken quite a hit across Europe recently, and I  think further action from the ECB will be needed next year, maybe  down to 2.5 percent,'' James Mitchell, senior London-based strategist  with Nomura.
An economist at the Banque Bruxelles Lambert, Liesbeth  Van de Craen, said the cuts were timely.
``We are clearly headed for  a slowdown,'' she said.
Until recently, Europe's economies had held  out relatively well against damage from Asia and Russia's economic  crises and unstable financial markets.
But just two days ago, Duisenberg  painted the bleakest picture yet of Europe's economies, warning growth  will likely slow to 2.5 percent next year from earlier expectations  of 3 percent.
The rate cuts may help.
By making it cheaper to borrow  money, rate cuts can lead to more investment and new businesses, making  it less worthwhile to save and inducing people to spend.
That expands  the economy.
The 11 countries launching the euro are Austria, Belgium,  Ireland, Italy, Finland, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,  Spain and Portugal.
China made trading in the euro official Monday, announcing authorization  for the European common currency's use in trade and financial dealings  starting Jan. 1.
The expected announcement from the central People's  Bank of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, carried  by the official Xinhua News Agency, also authorized the opening of  euro accounts.
``Financial institutions, enterprises and individuals  in China can accept and use the euro in economic, trade and financial  exchanges with 11 members of the European Union effective January  1, 1999,'' Xinhua reported.
``In addition, they can convert, use and  open the euro accounts,'' it said.
Chinese officials have said the  government may convert a proportion of its dlrs 145 billion worth  of foreign exchange reserves into the euro after the currency's Jan.
1 debut.
The 11 countries launching the common currency are Austria,  Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Finland, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the  Netherlands, Spain and Portugal.
Two days before the new euro currency goes into effect for 11 European  Union members, a growing number of Danes believe their country should  take part, according to a poll published Tuesday.
The survey by the  Megaphone polling institute said 54 percent of the 1,009 people surveyed  favor Denmark's participation, while 36 percent oppose that.
The remaining  10 percent were undecided.
The poll, conducted Dec. 18-22, was broadcast  by TV2 channel.
Denmark is one of four EU countries staying out of  the monetary union for the time being.
After voters in 1992 rejected  the Maastricht treaty that established the system, Denmark won opt-out  clauses.
The treaty then was approved.
Danish voters traditionally  have been lukewarm supporters of the EU.
Although many politicians  support the unified currency, they have been wary about bringing the  issue to voters again.
A poll published last October showed 46 percent  of Danes favored the single currency, while 44 percent were opposed.
It would take another national referendum for Denmark to adopt the  new currency.
The government has said it has no plans to hold a referendum  before the year 2001.
The annual inflation rate in the 11 nations that adopt the euro as  their shared currency on Jan. 1 fell to 0.9 percent in November, the  European Union's statistics agency reported Wednesday.
The fall continued  the steady decline of inflation in the euro-zone over the past year.
Annual inflation stood at 1 percent in October and 1.6 percent in  November 1997, according to Eurostat's monthly report.
In the 15 nation  EU as a whole, inflation fell to 1 percent in November compared to  1.5 percent in the United States and 0.8 percent in Japan.
Germany,  France, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Portugal,  Finland, Ireland and Luxembourg are set to adopt the euro as a common  currency at midnight on New Year's Eve.
The latest figures may hint  at trouble ahead for the euro-zone with significant increases over  the year in Portugal and Ireland.
With the European Central Bank setting  a common interest rate for the whole bloc, some economists fear the  low rate designed to boost core EU economies like France and Germany  may bring overheating in smaller nations with faster growth.
There  was good news for Greece which was kept out of the euro-zone for failing  to meet economic conditions for joining, including low inflation.
It's rate was 3.9 percent in November down from 5 percent a year before.
Greece hops to join the euro-zone in 2001.
Denmark, Sweden and Britain  decided to stay out of the euro for political reasons.
Eurostat gave  the following rates for November 1998, with November 1997 in brackets:  Sweden, 0.1 (2.7); France, 0.2 (1.4); Germany, 0.6 (1.4); Austria,  0.5 (1.1); Luxembourg, 0.5 (1.5); Belgium, 0.6 (1.3 percent); Denmark,  1.1 (1.6); Netherlands, 1.5 (2.5); Finland, 0.9 (1.8); Britain, 1.4  (1.9); Spain, 1.4 (1.9); Italy, 1.7 (1.8); Portugal, 2.6 (1.9); Ireland,  2.2 (1.1); Greece, 3.9 (5).
Wim Duisenberg, the head of the new European Central Bank, said in  an interview published Wednesday that he won't step down after completing  half his term as earlier agreed.
``I had hoped you wouldn't ask me  that question.
The answer is no,'' Duisenberg told the Le Monde daily,  which had asked him if he would step down after four years on the  job.
Duisenberg was named this spring as head of the new European  Central Bank, which will govern the policies of the euro, the new  single currency which goes into effect Jan. 1.
France surprised its  euro partners by proposing its central banker, Jean-Claude Trichet,  at the last minute for the job Duisenberg was expected to secure easily.
Although he was elected easily, Duisenberg agreed to step down after  four years of his eight year term although he has since said no such  ``gentleman's agreement'' exists.
Duisenberg told Le Monde, a newspaper  that fervently has backed the euro, that the the introduction of the  new currency is the most ``significant'' step so far toward European  unification.
However, he said that he would like to see further political  integration, especially in the area of foreign tax and social policies.
Europe's dream of monetary union becomes reality Thursday when 11  nations irrevocably lock their currencies together to form the euro  and create an economic giant whose boundaries stretch from beyond  the Arctic Circle to the shores of the Mediterranean.
The euro's birth  is being hailed as a historic turning point in international finance  and is arguably the greatest single step in the drive to create a  united Europe from the ruins of World War II.
``This Dec. 31, 1998,  will be one of the great dates in the history of the 20th century,''  French Finance Minister Dominique Strauss-Kahn, told France Info radio.
``It's the beginning of a new era.''
On what Europeans are calling  ``E-day,'' economic and finance ministers from the 11 nations will  huddle at European Union headquarters to agree to the rates at which  German marks, Italian lire and the rest are absorbed into euro.
Strauss-Kahn  said the euro would likely be worth 6.56 to 6.57 French francs.
Struggling to avoid being sidelined in the Continent-wide equities  market promised by Europe's soon-to-be-introduced single currency,  French authorities said Thursday that the Paris stock exchange would  join an alliance between London and Frankfurt that is seen as the  precursor of a pan-European market.
The Bourse in Paris also announced  that it would play host to a meeting Nov. 27 of nine other European  exchanges to discuss ``the steps and conditions needed to create a  unifying and competitive pan-European equity market.''
The two announcements  show how the introduction of the currency, the euro, is reshaping  Europe's financial landscape, requiring Europeans to think in Continental  rather than national terms in finance and business.
And it suggested  that exchange authorities in Paris, ruffled by the announcement in  July of a ``strategic alliance'' between the London Stock Exchange  and the Deutsche Borse in Frankfurt, had not only abandoned an effort  to set up a rival market but were also seeking to gain the initiative  by organizing the Nov. 27 gathering.
Some doubt remained, however,  about the timing and technicalities of the French entry into the alliance.
Foreign Minister Dominique Strauss-Kahn said, ``Paris is joining this  alliance with the creation from January 1999 of a joint company.''
who welcomed the idea  in principle _ declined to say whether the timing and the arrangements  were as far advanced as Strauss-Kahn implied.
``I'm afraid I can't  confirm anything like that,'' a spokeswoman at the London Stock Exchange  said.
``The appearances are well ahead of the reality at this point,''  said an American banker, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Not only that, the notion of a Europe-wide exchange raises technical  questions about the compatibility not just of trading systems but  also of the regulations governing stock market operations in the countries  that will use the euro beginning in January.
That has led some analysts  to forecast that a pan-European exchange could not be up and running  before 2000.
``There are an awful lot of issues to be resolved,''  the American banker said.
The euro is to be introduced for electronic  trading of equities, bonds and futures and for intergovernmental transfers.
Notes and coins _ the pocket money that shoppers and travelers will  carry _ will be introduced only in 2002.
Initially, the currency will  group 11 European nations in a euro zone, leaving Britain, Denmark,  Sweden and Greece on the outside.
With its concentration of banking  and trading, however, London is expected to continue as the main market  center.
The prospect has heightened pressure for consolidation among  exchanges.
Stock market officials in Milan, Madrid, Amsterdam and  Brussels have indicated they would be interested in joining the London-Frankfurt  alliance, which will initially create a single point of liquidity  for trading in British and German blue-chip issues.
The London exchange  estimates that a pan-European stock exchange would group together  companies with a market capitalization of $5.5 trillion, compared  with $8.7 trillion on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Paris Bourse,  the third largest of the European exchanges and the last major holdout  toward a pan-European market, said that it had also invited officials  from exchanges in Zurich and Stockholm to attend the Nov. 27 meeting.
A spokeswoman said officials from the London Stock Exchange would  be at the meeting.
Also Thursday, the New York Mercantile Exchange  and the International Petroleum Exchange here acknowledged that they  were considering a merger that would bring together the two biggest  energy futures markets.
Discussions began in July, and the exchanges  have formed a working group to study a merger.
They already cooperate  in the development of a system intended to coordinate after-hours  electronic trading.
Palm Pilot in one hand, cellular phone in the other, Jean-Marc Routiers,  26, was juggling business calls halfway between London and Paris.
When his phone went dead as the high-speed Eurostar train pulled into  the underwater tunnel that links England to the Continent, the London-based  French banker loosened his Italian silk tie and introduced himself.
``I definitely describe myself as a European,'' he said in the fluent  English he perfected working at an Australian bank.
``I may get sentimental  when they play the Marseillaise, but for all the practical things,  I see myself as a citizen of Europe.
I like the lifestyle in France,  but I don't make my living there.''
The year 1999 is the official  start-up date of the euro, the common European currency that will  unite 11 countries monetarily.
But throughout Europe, a different  kind of integration has already taken root.
Routiers, who was spending  a day in Paris to meet with his bank's French clients, is at the vanguard  of a new generation of Europeans who do not have to brace themselves  for a shock in the new year.
Mobile, fluent in several languages and  aggressively non-nationalistic, they are already living the kind of  borderless, cosmopolitan existence that the single European currency  is supposed to advance.
They do not share their parents' memories  of World War II or their parents' sense of national identity.
``People  worry when they hear talk of a common European defense policy because  it suggests that at the end of the day, we have one government,''  said Kleon Papadopoulos, a Greek banker based in London.
``Countries  are afraid to lose their sovereignty, but I don't see it as a bad  thing.
If a government is good, stable and efficient, who cares if  it is based in Berlin or Athens?''
Papadopoulos, 36, who studied business  in the United States and Britain, could serve as a model for the new  Europeans.
He works for a Swiss bank in London, speaks Greek, English  and French, and in the past year has traveled, among other places,  to Belgium, the United States, Cuba, Switzerland and Italy.
Like hundreds  and its busy financial  markets _ as the best place to work.
He said he does not feel as if  he lives in England.
He lives in London, the clubhouse of financial  Europe.
And membership has its privileges.
Papadopoulos lives in the  fashionable Knightsbridge area, drives a Porsche he bought in Brussels,  and works out at the fashionable gym of the Carleton Towers.
``I went  to the London School of Economics in 1984, and the only other `foreigners'  I met were from the Middle East,'' he says.
``Now friends and co-workers  are Italian, French, Greek, Spanish, German, even Russian.
You feel  it everywhere.
The streets are jammed with foreigners.
Not tourists  _ people who live and work here.''
Baby-boomers in Europe often describe  themselves as the 1968 generation, weaned on the protest and social  turmoil that convulsed European societies 30 years ago.
Less dramatic  but equally significant was a 1968 law guaranteeing freedom of movement  within what were then the six countries of the Common Market.
A Frenchman  could work in Holland, an Italian could work in Germany without a  permit.
Back then some economists dourly predicted huge migrations,  particularly of unskilled laborers moving from southern countries  to the more prosperous north.
Actually, as huge industries like steel  shrank in the 1970s and '80s, so did the job opportunities for working-class  Europeans.
There are 15 countries within what is now the European  Union, but only a small percentage of their citizens have moved to  other countries, according to estimates prepared by Eurostat.
Those  who do mostly find jobs in the service industry as waiters, maids  or garbage collectors.
There are still legal barriers preventing most  doctors, lawyers and academics from finding work in other countries.
So far the European Union has been most profitably put to use by white-collar  business executives who eagerly followed career opportunities across  national borders, time zones and language barriers.
Twenty-five years  ago that kind of mobility was the preserve of a far smaller elite,  the top executives of major companies or multinational corporations.
Technology, from high-speed trains to the ever-evolving apparatus  of business _ lap-top computers, cell phones, fax machines _ has made  European mobility accessible to mid-level managers, young entrepreneurs  and even students.
Cable television, which allows Germans to watch  Italian game shows or Swedes to watch French news programs, has spread  the Zeitgeist to the masses.
This year Superga, an Italian brand of  sports clothes and shoes, opened a major advertising campaign with  a series of magazine ads that show fashionable young people saucily  cavorting with European leaders _ a leggy young woman pushes her bicycle  up the steps of the Elysee Palace to greet President Jacques Chirac,  a young man playfully sticks his tongue out the window of the plane  of the former German chancellor, Helmut Kohl.
``This kind of ad would  not have been possible five or 10 years ago,'' said Aldo Cernuto,  executive creative director of the Milan office of Pirella Gottsche  Lowe, an international advertising agency.
``Now European unification  is on the TV all the time; it has seeped into people's unconscious.
Even people who do not care about politics recognize the faces of  a Tony Blair or Jacques Chirac.
Ten years ago, very few people did.''
According to the European Union, Britain has twice as many EU citizens  as France, but it is not the country with the highest concentration  of residents from other European countries.
According to estimates  based on surveys prepared by Eurostat, nearly a third of the residents  of tiny Luxembourg, which has low unemployment and a high standard  of living, are from other European countries.
Belgium, which has the  European Commission and NATO headquarters, is second, with 5.4 percent.
Paradoxically, perhaps, Britain, the one major European nation that  has held off from joining the euro, is widely viewed as the nerve  center of the new cosmopolitanism, headquarters for the New Europeans  _ bankers and business executives drawn by London's financial district,  a more flexible bureaucracy and the universality of the English language.
Perhaps just as surprisingly, London also serves as an example of  another less obvious aspect of European cosmopolitanism _ the breakdown  of certain social barriers.
Studying abroad was once a privilege reserved  to the sons and daughters of Europe's elite.
Now the European Union  has a 12-year-old scholarship program, called Socrates-Erasmus, that  this year allowed 200,000 European university students _ 5 percent  of the EU's entire university population _ to study in other countries  within the Union for up to a year, free.
In the last 20 years, business  schools in Europe have multiplied, and most offer U.S.-style MBA programs  that teach an American approach to business.
This too has allowed  a measure of meritocracy to creep into European business.
``Juergen  Schrempp, the head of Daimler, started as a car mechanic,'' noted  Stephen Szabo, a professor of European Affairs at the Johns Hopkins  University School for International Studies in Washington.
``That  would have been unthinkable in Germany 20 years ago.''
Social mobility,  moreover, is fueled by movement.
When people transfer to another country,  they find it easier to shed the psychological or cultural trappings  of home.
``I could never have the kind of job I have had I stayed  in Paris,'' Routier explained.
``France is still very hierarchical.
Bosses want to know where you went to school, what your father does.
In London, none of that matters as long as you make money.''
Many  Britons still view their country as weighed down by heavy class distinctions.
For example, Tony Smith, 36, editor of several Portuguese magazines  in Lisbon, seized an opportunity to study in Vienna 14 years ago,  and never looked back.
He has lived all over Europe, and is fluent  in Portuguese, Spanish, German, French and Serbo-Croatian.
His father,  a car mechanic, had not traveled out of Britain until 1992.
Smith  said he could never have succeeded as well had he stayed home.
``I  didn't go to public schools or Oxbridge,'' he explained.
``I'm not  saying its impossible, but it would have been much more difficult  in England.''
Yet Continental Europeans who flock to London find themselves  bypassing English society and joining a cosmopolitan world where birth  and breeding do not matter as much.
Ildiko Iliffe, 30, chose to work  in London to escape the sexism she encountered on the Continent.
Mrs.  Iliffe, who is Hungarian, speaks fluent English, German, French and  Italian, and met her Canadian husband, Roger Iliffe, 30, while both  were attending the University of Bocconi business school in Milan  in 1995.
Like his wife, Iliffe speaks four languages and has lived  and traveled all over the world.
She works on the Eastern European  desk of a British bank; he works for a major international consulting  firm.
Originally they planned to work in Italy, but Mrs. Iliffe said  the prevailing attitude towards working women there made it impossible  for her to find as good a job.
``I went to job interviews at Italian  banks and they only asked me about my husband's job,'' she said with  a grimace.
``And they made it clear that they were afraid I would  get pregnant and ask for maternity leave.''
Philippe Haspeslagh, 48,  a professor at Insead, the prestigious international business school  in Fontainebleau, outside Paris, called Mrs. Iliffe's choices cherry-picking  _ choosing the best deal for herself.
As he put it, ``If they cannot  find what they want in one country, they can pick up and seek it elsewhere.''
Twenty-five years ago, Haspeslagh was a pioneer when he did the same  thing.
A Belgian who studied business at Harvard, he lives and teaches  in France and does consulting work all over Europe, from Sweden to  the Czech Republic.
The message on his cell phone is in three languages  _ French, Flemish and English.
His students, a generation behind him,  see nothing exceptional in his transnationalism.
These Europeans form  an advance guard that is still relatively small in numbers, but experts  say they carry a disproportionate influence on their societies.
``In  Germany, for example, it is the business people who are pushing ahead  with change and pulling politicians along behind them kicking and  screaming,'' Szabo said.
``They are looking at a larger market and  feel the competitive pressures of globalization.
Politicians are responding  to a domestic constituency.
They are answering to an international  one.''
Indonesia invaded the former Portuguese territory of East Timor in 1975 and annexed it in 1976.
By late 1998 while East Timorese called for independence and accused Indonesian troops of yet another massacre of civilians, Portugal cut off talks with Indonesia.
Internationally, Taiwan was timid fearing antagonizing Indonesia, Australians protested against training Indonesian military who might be assigned to East Timor, and fifteen European Union leaders endorsed Portugal's call for a referendum on East Timor's future.
A U.N. enjoy saw a peaceful solution as distant, but sensed a "newfound taste for compromise."
The future of the former Portuguese island colony East Timor is in doubt.
Indonesia invaded it in 1975 and later annexed it, but not recognized by the UN.
East Timor's spiritual leader, Bishop Carlos Belok the 1996 Nobel Peace laureate, has reported killings by Indonesian troops.
Portugal has accused Indonesia of failing to reduce its military presence in East Timor.
Australia and Taiwan are reluctant to antagonize Indonesia on this issue.
Violence has also occurred in Jakarta and west Timor.
The UN has a plan for East Timor and Indonesia is offering a small measure of autonomy, but few observers express hope for a favorable outcome for the talks.
After Portugal left East Timor, Indonesia invaded and annexed it.
Rebels have waged a small war since 1975.
The UN doesn't recognize Indonesian claims.
UN talks, suspended by Portugal, were revived after Suharto's ouster.
The EU urges a permanent UN presence and an E. Timor referendum on its future.
Taiwan denied entry to an E. Timor Nobelist independence advocate.
E. Timor mosques were set fire to avenge attacks on majority Christian churches.
Australia trained Indonesian officers to monitor human rights.
Indonesian troop attacks on unarmed E. Timor civilians are claimed.
Indonesia and E. Timor are said to be compromising but a solution is still distant.
The UN envoy, brokering a solution for the fate of East Timor, is hopeful that both sides have softened their positions and Indonesia and Portugal will resume talks.
Debate centers on having a referendum and the extent of final Timorese control.
Talks had ended last month and several incidents have occurred, with dead, wounded and missing reported, and mosques and churches destroyed.
Since 1975, East Timor, a mainly Christian, former Portuguese colony, has been occupied by, the mostly Muslim, Indonesia.
Recently the European Union supported Portugal's position, while Pacific nations, especially, Australia and Taiwan, try not to antagonize Indonesia.
Indonesia on Tuesday denied claims that its troops massacred more  than 40 East Timorese recently, and criticized Portugal for suspending  U.N.-sponsored talks over the future of the troubled territory.
Foreign  Minister Ali Alatas questioned whether Portugal truly wanted to settle  the problem of East Timor, a former Portuguese colony, the official  Antara news agency reported.
Portugal suspended the talks with Indonesia  in New York last week following reports of a massacre of dozens of  East Timorese rebels in a series of clashes with Indonesian troops.
East Timor's spiritual leader, Roman Catholic Bishop Carlos Belo,  has said that between 30 and 40 people were reportedly killed near  the villages of Alas and Same, 40 kilometers (25 miles) southeast  of Dili, East Timor capital.
The 1996 Nobel Peace Prize winner said  that so far, only 11 bodies had been identified.
Alatas said the claims  of a massacre were not true.
``The Portuguese delegation, without  checking the truth of the information, decided to temporarily suspend  the ongoing dialogue,'' Antara quoted Alatas as saying.
The New York-based  group Human Rights Watch said some deaths had occurred in fights between  rebels and Indonesian forces.
However, it could not confirm claims  that dozens of people had been killed.
Alatas said it was the third  time that Portugal had unilaterally suspended talks over East Timor  since 1986.
Based on this, Alatas said, Indonesia was skeptical about  Portugal's sincerity, Antara reported.
In response, Portugal's Foreign  Ministry accused Indonesia of breaking promises to reduce its military  presence in East Timor and called for a permanent U.N. mission in  the disputed territory.
``Unfortunately, Indonesia has increased its  deployment and the brutality of its military actions in East Timor,''  said ministry spokesman Horacio Cesar.
Meanwhile, about 500 students  ended their noisy but peaceful rally outside the office of East Timor's  governor in Dili Tuesday after receiving promises that the reported  killings would be investigated.
In a dialogue with the students' representatives,  Governor Abilio Osorio Soares and military chief Col. Suhartono Suratman  agreed to set up a team to make a thorough investigation.
The group  earlier had spent one night occupying the provincial Parliament and  vowed to stay at the governor's office.
The students also demanded  a total withdrawal of Indonesian soldiers from East Timor.
Meanwhile,  an unidentified man, believed to be a rebel, was reported to have  shot and wounded Izildo Pereira, a civilian, in Baucau, 100 kilometers  (62 miles) east of Dili.
Izildo, 30, who was shot Sunday, was being  treated at a military hospital in Dili.
Indonesia invaded East Timor  in 1975 and annexed it the following year.
The United Nations, however,  does not recognize Indonesia's claim.
Before being suspended, the  talks centered on an Indonesian offer to give East Timor autonomy  in return for international recognition of Indonesian sovereignty  there.
Taiwan's Foreign Ministry on Thursday blamed ``administrative negligence''  for an incident in which Nobel Peace Prize winner Josi Ramos-Horta  was left stranded at the airport for hours after being refused entry.
Opposition supporters alleged the incident Wednesday night was politically  motivated.
Ramos-Horta is an advocate of independence for Indonesian-controlled  East Timor, and newspapers reported Taiwan had formerly barred him  to avoid antagonizing Indonesia.
But Ramos-Horta's previous persona  non grata status had been ordered lifted by the Foreign Ministry in  August, leaving no reason why he should have been refused entry by  airport immigration when he came to town Wednesday night, ministry  spokesman Roy Wu told a news conference.
``This incident accentuated  the problem with administrative relations, it needs to be improved.
... It's a fact,'' Wu told a news conference.
Ramos-Horta had a rough  time Wednesday night.
Immigration officials would not let him in,  then he tried to catch a flight out but missed the plane.
Eventually,  the Foreign Ministry intervened and let Ramos-Horta enter Taiwan.
He went only as far as the airport hotel.
Conflicting reports indicate  Ramos-Horta was stuck at the airport for between four and seven hours.
Ramos-Horta was carrying a Portuguese passport, which should have  permitted him visa-free entry to Taiwan for up to 14 days, newspapers  said.
The opposition Democratic Progressive Party alleged Ramos-Horta  had been refused entry because he planned to speak on behalf of Chen  Shui-bian's campaign to be re-elected as mayor of Taipei.
Chen is  Taiwan's most prominent DPP politician.
``This sort of incident shows  that Taiwan is just not qualified to be called a democratic nation,''  DPP Secretary-General Chiu Yi-jen told a news conference.
Ramos-Horta  sought to play down the incident before leaving town Thursday.
``I  don't want to make a big problem out of it.
I have been to many countries.
The only countries that don't allow me in would be countries like  Iraq, Iran,'' he told reporters before catching an afternoon flight  to attend a conference in Australia.
Indonesia invaded East Timor  in 1975 and annexed it the following year.
The United Nations does  not recognize Indonesian claims to East Timor.
Bent on revenge for earlier attacks on churches, mobs set fire to  four mosques in West Timor Monday after a protest and strike by thousands  of Christians degenerated into a riot, the military and a Muslim leader  said.
A rampaging crowd also burned down a market and a Muslim school.
Troops and riot police patrolled the streets.
There were no immediate  reports of serious injuries or arrests as fighting between Muslims  and Christians continued after dark, said a military officer who spoke  by telephone on condition of anonymity.
The violence in the Christian-dominated  city of Kupang was in retaliation for the burning and ransacking of  22 churches by Muslim mobs in the capital, Jakarta, on Nov. 22, when  14 people were killed.
Islamic leaders urged Indonesia's Muslim majority  not to retaliate with more violence.
Adurrahman Wahid, head of Indonesia's  largest Muslim grouping, the 30 million-member Nahdlatul Ulama, accused  provocateurs of whipping up religious strife when the sprawling Southeast  Asian nation is trying to head toward democracy.
``I hope Muslims  ... are not deceived by such provocations,'' said Wahid, who has been  pushing for religious unity.
West Timor shares the same island as  troubled East Timor, a former Portuguese territory dominated by Roman  Catholicism and invaded by Indonesia in 1975.
Christians, mostly Protestants,  dominate Kupang, about 1,875 kilometers (1,172 miles) southeast of  the Indonesian capital.
However, a sizable Muslim minority also lives  there.
The Kupang riot broke out after thousands of Christians staged  a peaceful strike and street protest against the Jakarta church attacks.
Most offices and shops were closed in the city of 120,000, the capital  of East Nusa Tenggara province, whose governor called for calm.
Organizers  of Monday's strike had called for a non-violent ``day of mourning.''
However, residents said fires broke out in three mosques after rival  gangs pelted each other with rocks.
Indonesia is the world's most  populous Islamic nation.
About 90 percent of Indonesia's 202 million  people are Muslims, with the rest following Christian, Hindu, Buddhist  or other faiths.
Religious diversity based on a belief in God is enshrined  in the national philosophy, known as Pancasila, adopted when Indonesia  declared independence from Dutch colonial rule in 1945.
The upsurge  in religious violence follows months of riots and protests in many  parts of Indonesia.
Social tensions in the sprawling Southeast Asian  nation have intensified as it grapples with its worst economic crisis  in decades.
There is also political turmoil as students protesters  demand greater democracy after 32 years of authoritarian rule by former  President Suharto, who was forced to quit following deadly riots in  May.
Ismalil Hasan Metareum, head of the Muslim-dominated opposition  United Development Party, urged his followers not to hit back.
More  than 100,000 party supporters filled a sports stadium in Jakarta Sunday  at the opening of a four-day convention.
Religious strife erupted  recently in the eastern part of the main island of Java, where more  than 150 people, many of them Islamic clerics, have been murdered,  apparently by rival Muslim groups.
Many of the dead were accused of  practicing black magic.
Protesters on Sunday urged Australian military leaders to identify  Indonesian army officers trained here to allow closer monitoring of  human rights abuses in East Timor.
The Australian military holds joint  training exercises with Indonesian troops, including the elite commando  units accused ot atrocities in East Timor.
In Queensland, about 100  activists gathered outside the Canungra Land Warfare Center, south  of Brisbane, to mark the 23rd anniversary of the Indonesian invasion  of East Timor.
``It is a peaceful protest against Australia training  Indonesian soldiers,'' spokesman Jason McLeod said.
The protesters  wanted Australia to cut all military ties with Indonesia despite Defence  Minister John Moore's recent announcement that joint exercises would  resume, he said.
``The Australian government has repeatedly refused  to allow the Indonesians trained here to be identified,'' McLeod said.
``But we are demanding they be named along with their unit and battalion  number because this will allow closer monitoring of human rights issues,''  he said.
McLeod said 40,000 East Timorese were killed by Japanese  soldiers for protecting Australian commandos during World War II.
``When they finally left the country the Australians distributed leaflets  saying they would never forget the people of East Timor,'' he said.
The protesters wanted to remind Australia's current soldiers of that  pledge.
After Portugal abandoned its former colony in East Timor in  1975, Indonesia invaded it and annexed it the following year.
The  United Nations refuses to recognize the annexation as legitimate;  Australia is one of the few nations that recognizes Indonesian sovereignty  over East Timor.
Protesters on Sunday urged Australian military leaders to identify  Indonesian army officers trained here to allow closer monitoring of  human rights abuses in East Timor.
The Australian military holds joint  training exercises with Indonesian troops, including the elite commando  units accused ot atrocities in East Timor.
In Queensland, about 100  activists gathered outside the Canungra Land Warfare Center, south  of Brisbane, to mark the 23rd anniversary of the Indonesian invasion  of East Timor.
``It is a peaceful protest against Australia training  Indonesian soldiers,'' spokesman Jason McLeod said.
The protesters  wanted Australia to cut all military ties with Indonesia despite Defence  Minister John Moore's recent announcement that joint exercises would  resume, he said.
``The Australian government has repeatedly refused  to allow the Indonesians trained here to be identified,'' McLeod said.
``But we are demanding they be named along with their unit and battalion  number because this will allow closer monitoring of human rights issues,''  he said.
McLeod said 40,000 East Timorese were killed by Japanese  soldiers for protecting Australian commandos during World War II.
``When they finally left the country the Australians distributed leaflets  saying they would never forget the people of East Timor,'' he said.
The protesters wanted to remind Australia's current soldiers of that  pledge.
After Portugal abandoned its former colony in East Timor in  1975, Indonesia invaded it and annexed it the following year.
The  United Nations refuses to recognize the annexation as legitimate;  Australia is one of the few nations that recognizes Indonesian sovereignty  over East Timor.
Representatives of exiled East Timorese pro-independence groups said  Friday that Indonesian troops attacked unarmed civilians in a village  in the disputed Southeast Asian territory, killing one East Timorese  and wounding 22 others.
The attack took place Tuesday near Cailaco  in East Timor, a former Portuguese colony, according to a statement  issued by the pro-independence Christian Democratic Union of East  Timor.
Placido dos Santos, a 28-year-old farmer, was tortured and  killed by the Indonesian military during the attack, the statement  claimed.
Jose Pau Lelo, 38, Rosito Borges, 35, and Leao Soares, 50,  were in a coma due to injuries they sustained in the attack, according  to the statement which cited resistance sources in East Timor's capital  Dili.
The statement, released in the Portuguese capital Lisbon, also  said 19 men were wounded, eight seriously, and 26 others were missing.
The names, ages and occupations of the villagers were listed.
There  was no independent confirmation of the attack, and Indonesian officials  were was not immediately available for comment.
Indonesia invaded  East Timor in Dec. 1975, following Portugal's colonial rule, and annexed  it a month later.
Indonesian troops have since then been fighting  a small band of pro-independence guerillas.
Roque Rodrigues, a Lisbon  spokesman for the National Council of Timorese Resistance, said he  also had corroborated the report with six sources inside East Timor  and said he had ``no reasons to doubt the truth'' of the statement.
The United Nations, which is brokering talks between Lisbon and Jakarta  over the territory's political future, still regards Portugal as the  administering power in East Timor.
The half-island territory lies  some 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) southeast of Jakarta.
Representatives of exiled East Timorese pro-independence groups said  Friday that Indonesian troops attacked unarmed civilians in a village  in the disputed Southeast Asian territory, killing one East Timorese  and wounding 22 others.
The report could not be independently confirmed,  and Indonesian officials were not immediately available for comment.
The attack took place Tuesday near Cailaco in East Timor, a former  Portuguese colony, according to a statement issued by the pro-independence  Christian Democratic Union of East Timor.
Placido dos Santos, a 28-year-old  farmer, was tortured and killed by the Indonesian military during  the attack, the statement, which cited resistance sources in East  Timor's capital, Dili.
The statement, released in the Portuguese capital  of Lisbon, also said that 22 people were injured and 26 were missing.
The names, ages and occupations of the villagers were listed.
Roque  Rodrigues, a Lisbon spokesman for the Socialist Party of Timor, another  pro-independence group, said he had corroborated the report with six  sources inside East Timor and said he had ``no reasons to doubt the  truth'' of the statement.
The United Nations, which is brokering talks  between Lisbon and Jakarta over the territory's political future,  still regards Portugal as the administering power in East Timor.
The  half-island territory lies some 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) southeast  of Jakarta.
Representatives of exiled East Timorese pro-independence groups said  Friday that Indonesian troops attacked unarmed civilians in a village  in the disputed Southeast Asian territory, killing one East Timorese  and wounding 22 others.
The report could not be independently confirmed,  and Indonesian officials were not immediately available for comment.
The attack took place Tuesday near Cailaco in East Timor, a former  Portuguese colony, according to a statement issued by the pro-independence  Christian Democratic Union of East Timor.
Placido dos Santos, a 28-year-old  farmer, was tortured and killed by the Indonesian military during  the attack, the statement, which cited resistance sources in East  Timor's capital, Dili.
The statement, released in the Portuguese capital  of Lisbon, also said that 22 people were injured and 26 were missing.
The names, ages and occupations of the villagers were listed.
Roque  Rodrigues, a Lisbon spokesman for the National Council of Timorese  Resistance, another pro-independence group, said he had corroborated  the report with six sources inside East Timor and said he had ``no  reasons to doubt the truth'' of the statement.
The United Nations,  which is brokering talks between Lisbon and Jakarta over the territory's  political future, still regards Portugal as the administering power  in East Timor.
The half-island territory lies some 2,000 kilometers  (1,200 miles) southeast of Jakarta.
In a decision welcomed as a landmark by Portugal, European Union leaders  Saturday backed calls for a referendum to decide the fate of East  Timor, the former Portuguese colony occupied by Indonesia since 1975.
``A definitive solution to the East Timor question will not be possible  without free consultation to establish the real will of the East Timorese  people,'' the 15 EU leaders said in statement after their year-end  summit.
Portuguese Foreign Minister Jaime Gama said the statement  marked the first time the EU had backed Lisbon's call for the East  Timorese to vote on whether to opt for independence or remain under  Indonesian rule.
Indonesia has resisted such calls for a referendum  and maintains thousands of troops to keep order in the half-island  territory.
The EU statement also urged Indonesia to bring about a  ``real and substantial reduction'' in troop levels and called for  the establishment of a permanent U.N. presence in East Timor.
The  leaders repeated a demand that Indonesia release jailed Timorese rebel  leader Xanana Gusmao, and all political prisoners.
Indonesia invaded  East Timor in 1975 as Portugal prepared to grant independence, and  annexed it the following year.
The United Nations does not recognize  Indonesian rule.
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) - As a U.N. envoy trotted toward an Indonesian  army helicopter, East Timorese protesters spilled onto the runway  tarmac and shouted their anger at nervous soldiers.
Sent to make peace  in Indonesian-controlled East Timor, Jamsheed Marker's recent hasty  departure from the troubled territory signaled how easily tensions  there can boil over.
Yet Marker, who is visiting Indonesia to promote  a U.N.-designed blueprint for autonomy in the former Portuguese colony,  said Monday that both sides in the bitter conflict were displaying  a newfound taste for compromise.
In an interview with The Associated  Press, Marker admitted that a peaceful solution remains distant.
But  in a big step forward, he said, many separatist activists were no  longer pressing for an immediate vote on independence.
``They don't  want independence tomorrow,'' said Marker, who was interviewed in  a Jakarta hotel suite after his trip to East Timor.
In other progress,  Indonesia and Portugal will send diplomats to open ``interest'' sections  in each other's capitals next month.
Formal diplomatic relations,  however, will not be resumed.
Also in January, the two countries are  scheduled to embark on a new round of U.N.-sponsored peace talks in  New York.
Turmoil has plagued East Timor ever since Indonesian troops  invaded in 1975, unleashing a separatist rebel war and the resentment  of a population pummeled by human rights abuses.
Talks were revived  earlier this year after the ouster of authoritarian President Suharto,  but differences remain over a definition of autonomy that would suit  all parties.
Separatists want it to be transitional, while Indonesia  is offering East Timorese partial control of their affairs in exchange  for international recognition of its sovereignty.
Jakarta wants to  handle foreign, defense and financial affairs.
Fears are widespread  that more unrest in East Timor could derail the negotiations.
On Monday,  Marker voiced his concern in a meeting with East Timor's jailed rebel  chief, Xanana Gusmao.
``I said there was a lot of tension in East  Timor and that he and his people ought to do everything they can to  reduce it,'' said Marker, a former Pakistani ambassador to the United  Nations.
Tempers flared but there was no violence during protests  timed for Marker's weekend trip to Dili, the seaside capital of the  half-island territory of 800,000 people.
On Sunday, separatist protesters  tore down a fence at the commercial airport and pushed past soldiers  with automatic rifles as they tried in vain to speak to Marker as  he left.
During a visit last year, Indonesian soldiers killed two  pro-independence demonstrators outside a hotel where Marker was staying.
Activists have alleged that Indonesia secretly ferried troops into  East Timor in spite of pledges to reduce the number.
Marker said Jakarta  had advised him of troop rotations and that U.N. staff were monitoring  the situation.
Marker was scheduled to talk with Indonesian President  B.J. Habibie on Tuesday and will leave Indonesia on Wednesday to prepare  for another batch of meetings in the New Year.
``If you ask me...  `Do you have a solution?'
then the answer is, `I don't,''' he said.
``But I think there are ways of getting there and the first thing  is to have peace and quiet.''
One of those mentioned for the 1998 Nobel Literature Prize was Jose Saramago, Portuguese writer, atheist and Communist.
Saramago was weary of hearing again that this year he might win.
But this time he did, much to the delight of Portugal, but not to the Vatican.
In speculation on the Peace Prize it came out that only a strict deadline rule denied Jimmy Carter the 1978 prize.
The 1998 Medicine Prize went to three American pharmacologists, Robert Furchgott, Louis Ignarro and Ferid Murad for their discovery of the role of nitric oxide in the nervous and cardiovascular systems, one of the most important discoveries in the history of cardiovascular medicine.
Announcement of the Nobel Prize awards always generates great interest.
The prize for literature has always been one to receive varying responses.
Past selections have been praised, questioned, or even written off as politically or nationally "correct".
This year's winner is 75-year old Jose Saramago, the first Portuguese language writer to win.
It is the fourth straight year that a European won.
The Peace Prize always receives critical response.
Then President Carter would have shared the 1978 Prize with Sadat and Begin, except for a missed deadline.
The 1998 Nobel for medicine was awarded to three US researchers for discoveries with nitric oxide.
1998's Nobel prize for literature went to a Portuguese for the 1st time, imaginative novelist Jose Saramago, long a candidate.
Portugal celebrated but the Vatican called him a communist and anti-religious.
The meaning of Nobel's advice to honor "literature that works in an ideal direction" is unclear.
3 Americans won in medicine for 1980s discoveries concerning nitric oxide's function in the body, which sparked new research.
Nobel nominations are secret.
Prizes are awarded on Dec. 10th, the day of Nobel's death, all in Stockholm except the Peace prize in Oslo.
The 1978 committee wanted to give the Peace Prize to Jimmy Carter but missed its own deadline.
Jose Saramago is the first Portuguese-language writer and one of few communists to win the Nobel Prize for Literature.
He is widely acclaimed for his imaginative allegories.
Three American researchers, Robert Furchgott, Louis Ignarro, and Ferid Murad, shared the 1998 Nobel Prize for Medicine for discovering how nitric oxide acts as a signal molecule in the cardiovascular system.
Their research led to new treatments for heart and lung diseases, shock, and impotence.
The deliberations surrounding the awards are secret; however, Stig Ramel, a former director of the Nobel Foundation, revealed the committee wanted Jimmy Carter to share the 1978 peace prize.
There's room for a few more names on a 20th century honor roll of  writers, and one will be added this week when the Swedish Academy  announces the latest Nobel Literature laureate.
Who is chosen and  why stimulates animated conversation with readers as well as academics,  or, possibly,  winners _ will be announced Thursday, the Academy disclosed Tuesday.
``The joke you hear is that it goes to people you never heard of,''  said Ian Jack, editor of London-based Granta literary magazine.
But  the Nobel, awarded most every year since 1901, also shines a light,  usually deservedly, on wonderful writers few people have read, he  added.
His favorites include Trinidad-born V.S. Naipaul, though he's  convinced Naipaul probably won't win because of his ``dark ... pessimistic''  and often scathing portrayals of post-colonial African culture.
The  academy keeps its deliberations secret.
Who is considered seriously,  even who's nominated, isn't disclosed.
A writer's nationality, by  the terms of the prize founder Alfred Nobel's will, is supposed to  be irrelevant.
Two can share the prize, though the last time that  happened was 1974.
Winners are expected to personally receive it:  awards are not given posthumously.
Looking at the process from afar,  Harold Bloom, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters,  said the award committee has an unsettling record of selections that  are ``nationally 'correct' and politically 'correct.'''
The winners  list is prestigious, he concedes, but by no means uniformly lustrous.
``Absolutely not!
Outrageously not,'' he said in a telephone interview  from New York.
``They include all kinds of fifth-raters.
... James  Joyce never got one, for heaven's sake.
Neither did Marcel Proust.''
Bloom's U.S. favorites include Cormac McCarthy, author of ``Blood  Meridian''; Philip Roth, author of ``American Pastoral''; and John  Ashbery, ``the best living poet.''
A review of recent winners may  foreshadow this year's laureate.
Seven of the past 10 were men _ does  that favor a woman?
Two of the past three were poets _ does that favor  a prose writer?
Four of the past 10 wrote in English, and the last  three laureates are European.
In comparison, only three Asian writers  have ever won.
``Bei Dao is a personal favorite of mine,'' said Abe  Harumasa, editor-in-chief of the Japanese literary magazine Bungei.
``The choice could be interpreted as being motivated partly by politics,''  given the poet's association with China's democracy movement, ``but  it's clear he's a wonderful poet.''
Minoru Takeuchi, a professor of  Chinese literature at Japan's prestigious Kyoto University, cited  novelists Pa Kin and Xie Bing Xin as worthy.
The latter is known for  her portrayals of the struggles of Chinese women.
China, which translates  and publishes the works of many Nobel winners, ``desperately'' wants  its first laureate, he added.
Spain's Nobel hopes are pinned on Francisco  Ayala, 92, winner of this year's renowned Prince of Asturias prize,  said Jose Maria Martinez Cachero, an author, university professor  and secretary of the jury that selected Ayala.
Other presumed Latin  candidates are Peru-born Mario Vargas Llosa, a member of the 200-year-old  Royal Spanish Language Academy, Martinez Cachero said, and Portugal's  Jose Saramago, whose works have been translated into more than 20  languages.
For his part, Saramago, 75, said in a recent Associated  Press interview that he's weary of speculation that this year, once  again, he might win.
``Let's not get into that,'' he said.
``I just  write.''
When Alfred Nobel wrote the directions establishing a literature prize  in his name, he chose an unclear word and scratched out a few letters.
Questions about the prize have engaged and piqued the literary world  ever since.
A new chapter in the mystery will be written Thursday,  when the Swedish Academy announces this year's winner of the world's  most prestigious prize for writers.
The prize focuses intense media  attention on the Swedish capital and the clamor of journalists generally  drowns out a question: Why does the world care so much about the literary  choices of a handful of people in a quiet and remote country?
Does  the Nobel Prize really recognize the best?
When asked that question,  Swedish Academy permanent secretary Sture Allen smiled and said ``Look  at the list of prizewinners!''
The answer obscures as much as it clarifies.
On one hand, the Nobel Prize has recognized world-renowned writers  such as Isaac Bashevis Singer and brought little-known wonders to  light, such as Wislawa Szymborska.
But the prize arguably also has  honored the mediocre, heaping attention on those who would have been  more fairly served by obscurity.
Among them is the winner of the first  prize in 1901, Sully Prudhomme.
That choice was denounced by Sweden's  leading literary light, August Strindberg, and a group of Swedes sent  a letter to Leo Tolstoy apologizing for the Academy's slight in not  choosing him.
Arguments over the Academy's choices are inevitable,  considering the instructions they were given.
Nobel's will says the  prize should recognize literature that works ``in an ideal direction.''
What, exactly, he meant by ``ideal** is unclear and the Academy's  choices have reflected the confusion.
The Academy has chosen to interpret  the word to apply to works ranging from the good-hearted charm of  Szymborska's poetry to the crushing hopelessness of Samuel Beckett's  in Swedish ``idealisk**  _ he superimposed the last couple of letters over previous one.
Allen  was so curious to understand Nobel's thoughts that he engaged a forensic  expert to try to find out what the earlier letters were.
The expert  succeeded _ to a point.
He found that the first word Nobel wrote was  ``idealirad,'' a word that doesn't exist.
Despite the inclarity around  the edges, Allen said he is confident that the Academy's choices bolster  Nobel's core idea that ``literature would be the basis for some kind  of progress.''
About this year's choice, he won't say more than that:  the Academy is bound to keep its deliberations secret.
But observers  love to speculate on who might win, even who's on the shortlist for  the prize, this year worth 7.6 million kronor (about dlrs 974,000).
Names that freuqently come up in the guessing include V.S. Naipaul,  China's Bei Dao and Pa Kin, American poet John Ashbery, and Jose Saramago  of Portugal.
Portuguese novelist Jose Saramago, whose capricious vision includes  a section of Europe breaking off and floating out to sea, on Thursday  was named the winner of the 1998 Nobel Literature Prize.
In its citation,  the Swedish Academy said it gave the award to Saramago for work that  ``with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually  enables us to apprehend an elusory reality.''
Saramago, 75, wrote  his breakthrough novel in 1982, ``Baltasar and Blimunda.''
Perhaps  his best-known work is ``The Stone Raft,'' in which the Iberian Peninsula  breaks off from Europe for supernatural reasons and floats off into  the Atlantic.
That device allows him to comment ironically ``about  the authorities and politicians, perhaps especially about the major  players in power politics.''
Saramago's exuberant imagination and  playfulness have made him one of Portugal's most popular contemporary  novelists, and his works have been translated into more than 20 languages.
In ``Blindness,'' his most recent work to be translated into English,  a nameless man in a nameless country suddenly goes blind, and the  grim tale of social  collapse.
In 1991's ``The Gospel According to Jesus Christ,'' God  and the devli negotiate about evil, and Jesus tries to back out of  his crucifixion.
``Saramago's idiosyncratic development of his own  resonant style of fiction gives him a high standing ... he invokes  tradition in a way that in the current state of things can be described  as radical,'' the Academy said in the citation for the 7.6-million  kronor (dlrs 978,000 prize).
Saramago (pronounced sah-rah-MAH-go)  is the fourth consecutive European to win the prestigious prize, and  the first laureate to write in Portuguese.
He had long been seen as  one of the strongest potential candidates for the prize and the frequent  media queries about his prospects contrasted with his quiet personality.
``I am skeptical, reserved, I don't gush, I don't go around smiling,  hugging people, trying to make friends,'' he told The Associated Press  in a recent interview.
``I just write.''
Saramago on Thursday had  planned to leave Frankfurt, Germany, _ where he was attending the  international book fair _ for his home in the Canary Islands.
But  Portuguese state radio said he was taken off the plane before departure  and driven back to the fair, where a crowd wa waiting for him.
The  literature prize is one of five established by Alfred Nobel, the Swedish  industrialist and inventor of dynamite.
The prizes have been awarded  since 1901; a sixth prize, in economics, was started in 1969.
According  to the terms of Nobel's will, the literature prize is to recognize  writing that works ``in an ideal direction.''
How to interpret that  term has been widely debated.
The Nobel Prize over the years has been  given to writers with world-views stretching from the bleak futility  of Samuel Beckett's works to the vivid epics of Iceland's Halldor  Laxness.
The prize even has gone occasionally to writers who did not  work in fiction or poetry, notably Winston Churchill and Bertrand  Russell.
Last year's prize went to Dario Fo, the Italian playwright  whose work combines gut-busting comedy with acid social and political  commentary.
The 1996 winner was the Polish poet Wislawa Szymborska,  as shy and delicate and Fo is boisterous.
The Swedish Academy does  not reveal who was nominated or who it considered on its shortlist.
Nominations can be made by previous laureates, professors of history  and literature, members of the Academy and presidents of some national  authors' organizations.
The Nobel Prize in Medicine winner will be  announced Oct. 12, the physics and chemistry winners on Oct. 13, the  economics laureate on Oct. 14 and the peace prize on Occt.
16.
All  the prize announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize  which is given in Oslo, Norway.
All the prizes are presented on Dec.
10, the anniversary of Nobel's death.
Jose Saramago became the first writer in Portuguese to win the Nobel  Prize for Literature on Thursday.
His personal delight was seconded  by a burst of public elation in his homeland.
Saramago, 75, and Portuguese  said they were pleased the Swedish Academy had finally acknowledged  the literary contribution of Portugal, a small country of 10 million  people bordering Spain on Europe's southwestern Iberian Peninsula.
``It has taken all of this century to win a Nobel Prize for the Portuguese  language,'' Saramago said at the Frankfurt Book Fair, speaking through  an interpreter.
Saramago, a soft-spoken man known for his hard-edged  and iconoclastic views, said he shared the honor with his country  and he hoped winning the prize would make Portugal and its language  ``more visible and audible.''
``I'm personally very happy for myself.
I'm also happy for my country,'' he said at the Frankfurt Book Fair  in Germany where he was engulfed by well-wishers offering roses.
Back  home, President Jorge Sampaio said the award was a cause for ``great  collective satisfaction.''
Prime Minister Antonio Guterres said the  award was ``above all a prize for Portugal and the Portuguese language''  which is spoken by 180 million worldwide, mostly in Brazil, but also  in Portugal's five former colonies in Africa.
Saramago's controversial  opinions and atheistic outlook have frequently clashed with the establishment  and the general public.
Even on the day he won the prize, the Vatican  newspaper L'Osservatore Romano attacked the Swedish Academy's choice,  describing Saramago as an ``old-school communist'' who had a ``substantially  antireligious vision.''
Undersecretary of State Sousa Lara was so  upset by one of Saramago's novels in 1992 that he withdrew his name  from Portugal's nominees for the European Literature Prize.
At the  time, Lara said Saramago's 1991 novel ``O Evangelho Segundo Jesus  Cristo'' (The Gospel according to Jesus Christ) offended Portugal's  Roman Catholic religious convictions and divided the country.
The  book describes a Christ who, subject to human desires, lives with  Mary Magdalene and tries to back out of his crucifixion.
``I have  not come to bring peace but the sword,'' said Saramago, an atheist,  at the time.
He retreated in disgust with his Spanish wife, Pilar  del Rio, to his home in Lanzarote in Spain's Canary Islands.
He has  never courted the kind of fame offered by literary prizes, and his  bluntness can sometimes offend.
``I am skeptical, reserved, I don't  gush, I don't go around smiling, hugging people and trying to make  friends,'' he once said.
A gaunt man with wisps of white hair, Saramago  was born in Azinhaga, a small town near Lisbon.
From a poor family,  he never finished university but continued to study part-time while  supporting himself as a metalworker.
His first novel, published in  was a tale of  peasants in moral crisis.
It sold badly but won enough recognition  to propel him from the welder's shop to a literary magazine.
But for  the next 18 years, Saramago, a communist who opposed the 41-year conservative  dictatorship of Antonio Salazar, published only a few travel and poetry  books while he worked as a journalist.
He returned to fiction only  after Salazar's regime was toppled by a military uprising in 1974.
Since the 1980s, he has been one of Portugal's best-selling contemporary  writers and his works have been translated into more than 20 languages.
He first won critical acclaim abroad with his 1982 historical fantasy  ``Memorial do Convento,'' published in English in 1988 as ``Baltasar  and Blimunda.''
It is set during the Catholic-inspired inquisition  and explores the war between individuals and organized religion, picking  up Saramago's recurring theme of the loner struggling against authority.
He is most frequently compared with Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia  Marquez because his prose is often rooted in recognizable settings  but at the same time tinged with magical elements.
The Nobel citation  praised his work that ``with parables sustained by imagination, compassion  and irony continually enables us to apprehend an elusory reality.''
Saramago remains a prominent nonconformist through his regular newspaper  and radio commentaries, though his views are always inspired by his  deep concern for his fellow man.
``Blindness,'' his most recent book  to be translated into English, is an unsettling allegory about the  social meltdown as an inexplicable blindness sweeps through society.
``This blindness isn't a real blindness, it's a blindness of rationality,''  he said.
``We're rational beings but we don't behave rationally.
If  we did, there'd be no starvation in the world.''
In the 1989 ``The  History of the Siege of Lisbon,'' a Lisbon proofreader mischievously  inserts the word ``not'' into a text on the 12th century capture of  the Portuguese capital from the Moors, thereby fictionally altering  the course of European history with a stroke of his pen.
Such historical  and literary mischief are Saramago trademarks.
In his 1986 book, ``The  Stone Raft,'' the Iberian Peninsula snaps off from the rest of the  European continent and floats off into the North Atlantic _ apparently  in a metaphorical search for identity away from the standardizing  nature of the European Union, of which Portugal and Spain are enthusiastic  members.
Saramago will receive the dlrs 978,000 prize on Dec. 10 in  Stockholm.
A day after winning the Nobel Prize for literature, Portuguese novelist  Jose Saramago insisted that while he was delighted to win the award,  it could just as easily have gone to many other Portuguese writers.
``I'm not the only one who deserved it'', said the first Portuguese-language  author to obtain the prestigious award.
``There have been other Portuguse  authors, like Fernando Pessoa, whose work would justify 1,000 Nobels''  Speaking at a packed press coference in Madrid, Saramago joked about  how he heard he had won the prize from German air hostess at Frankfurt  airport as he waited for a flight home to Spain's Canary Islands.
The news left the 75-year-old writer no choice but to leave the airport  and return to the city's book fair to meet the press and public.
``At  that moment I was over the moon and returning to the book fair the  only thing I was worried about was that the whole thing was an error,''  said Saramago.
Dismissing the Vatican paper's disapproval Thursday  of his achievment, Saramago, a known atheist, quipped that he was  aware that ``the Pope had been among the jury, I wouldn't have won  the prize.''
``The Vatican is easily upset'', said Saramago, ``I think  that the Vatican should keep its mind on its prayers and leave people  alone''.
Meanwhile in Portugal, where Saramago is scheduled to arrive  on Tuesday, the delight at the Swedish Academy's award for Saramago  was reflected in the daily papers, with even the country's three daily  sports papers ample space to the event.
The two leading dailies, Publico  and Diario de Noticias, gave over their entire front pages to Saramago.
Lisbon City Hall rushed out posters saying ``Congratulations Jose  Saramago'' which were hung up around the capital during the night.
Saramago was born into a poor, illiterate family in Azinhaga, a small  town near Lisbon.
He never finished university but continued to study  part-time while supporting himself as a metalworker.
``Nothing in  my life would have led one to think I'd win the Nobel Prize'', said  Saramago.
``I wasn't born to win the Nobel.
I didn't have my own books  ``Terra do  Pecado,'' or ``Country of Sin'' _ was a tale of peasants in moral  crisis.
For the next 18 years, Saramago, a communist who opposed the  41-year conservative dictatorship of Antonio Salazar, published only  a few travel and poetry books while he worked as a journalist.
He  returned to fiction only after Salazar's regime was toppled by a military  uprising in 1974.
Since the 1980s, his works have been translated  into more than 20 languages.
Regarding the future, Saramago said the  book he is currently working on will be called ``The Cavern'' and  deals with a modern version of myth of Plato and the cave.
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, who seems a perennial Nobel Peace  Prize also-ran, could have won the coveted honor in 1978 had it not  been for strict deadline rules for nominations.
That prize was shared  by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem  Begin for signing the Camp David peace accords.
However, the five-member  Norwegian awards committee also wanted to honor Carter for brokering  the pact, only to be foiled by their own rules.
``The Nobel committee  wanted to give the prize to all three,'' said Geir Lundestad, the  current committee's nonvoting secretary, said on Sunday.
``But Carter  had not been nominated when the deadline ran out.''
Nominations postmarked  by Feb. 1 are accepted for that year's prize.
The committee can add  it own nominations at its first meeting of the year, usually in early  March.
The Camp David accords were not signed until Sept. 17, 1978,  about five weeks before that year's peace prize was annouCkuld not  give him the prize, the Norwegian committee recognized in the 1978  awards citation ``the positive initiative taken by President Jimmy  Carter.''
Lundestad said the committee, which works in deep secrecy  in its five or six meetings a year, tried to find a loophole in the  rules, which are overseen by the Swedish Nobel Foundation.
The Nobel  Prizes were endowed by Alfred Nobel, a Swedish industrialist whose  355 inventions included dynamite.
In his 1895 will, Nobel endowed  the prizes, and said the peace prize should be picked by a Norwegian  committee and the rest by Swedish institutions.
Lundestad said the  committee turned to the Swedish Nobel Foundation for advice on Carter  because it was a question of principle.
Stig Ramel, a Swede who was  then director of the Nobel Foundation, advised against breaking the  rules, Lundestad said by telephone.
Normally, the committee refuses  to discuss past candidates in keeping with a strict policy of secrecy  in which selection details are sealed for 50 years.
Lundestad made  an exception because Ramel revealed the Carter dilemma in his 1994  memoirs.
Carter has repeatedly been nominated for the Nobel prize  for his consistent and wide-ranging peace efforts.
He is also among  the 139 candidates for the prize being announced in Oslo on Friday.
However, early speculation leans more toward someone involved in the  Northern Ireland peace process, Czech President Vaclav Havel to mark  the 30th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of his country, or a human  rights activist to mark the 50th anniversary of the U.N. Human Rights  Charter.
While the committee wanted to honor Carter and could not,  with hindsight some regretted the prize for other reasons.
Four years  after Begin won the prize, the Israeli prime minister ordered an invasion  of southern Lebanon in which thousands of civilians died.
Kare Kristiansen,  who served on the peace prize committee from 1991 to 1994, once said  that, had the committee waited, Begin probably would not have won.
Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad of the United  States on Monday won the Nobel Medicine Prize.
They were given the  prize for their discoveries concerning nitric oxide as a signaling  molecule in the cardiovascular system, according to the citiation  from the Karolinska lnstitute.
Furchgott is a pharmacologist at the  State University of New York in Brooklyn, Ignarro is at University  of California-Los Angeles and Murad is at the University of Texas  Medical School in Houston.
The citation said ``it was a senation that  the simple, common air pollutant (nitric oxide), which is formed when  nitrogen burns ... could exert important functions in the organism.  ''
Because of the research, ``we know today that nitric oxide acts  as a signal molecule in the nervous system, as a weapon against infections  and as a regulator of blood pressure.''
The prize amount of 7.6 million  kronor (dlrs 978,000) is divided equally among the three.
Last year,  the prize went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California  at San Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified  as causing Mad Cow Disease.
Winners generally aren't known outside  the medical community, although the list of laureates contains a few  familiar names including Ivan Pavlov, tuberculosis pioneer Robert  Koch, and DNA researchers Francis Crick and James Watson.
Generally,  they are researchers who have made discoveries that sound small on  paper but carry large consequences.
Among other well-known names to  receive the prize is David Baltimore, although he shared the prize  in 1975, long before becoming one of the world's most visible AIDS  researchers.
Alan Cormack of the United States and Sir Godfrey Hounsfield  may not be familiar names, but what they won the prize for in 1979  or  CAT scan.
The medicine prize was the second of the six Nobels to be  announced this year.
Last Thursday, the literature prize went to Portuguese  novelist Jose Saramago.
The physics and chemistry prizes will be announced  Tuesday, the economics prize on Wednesday and the peace prize on Friday.
All the announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize  which is given in Oslo, Norway.
The prizes are presented on Dec. 10,  the anniversary of the death of Alfred Nobel, the industrialist and  inventor of dynamite whose will established the prizes.
Three American researchers on Monday won the Nobel Medicine Prize  for discovering how nitric oxide acts as a signal molecule in the  cardiovascular system, a breakthrough with applications ranging from  hardening of the arteries to impotence.
The prestigious prize went  to Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad.
Furchgott  is a pharmacologist at the State University of New York in Brooklyn,  Ignarro is at University of California-Los Angeles and Murad is at  the University of Texas Medical School in Houston.
The citation by  the Karolinska Institute said ``it was a senation that the simple,  common air pollutant (nitric oxide), which is formed when nitrogen  burns ... could exert important functions in the organism. ''
Because  of the research, ``we know today that nitric oxide acts as a signal  molecule in the nervous system, as a weapon against infections and  as a regulator of blood pressure.''
``Signal transmission by a gas  that is produced by one cell, penetrates through membranes and regulates  the function of another cell represents an entirely new principle,''  the citation said.
Understanding how nitric oxide transmits the signals  has sparked research on a wide range of new drugs, including those  that can be used in the treatment of heart problems, artherosclerosis,  shock and impotence.
The prize amount of 7.6 million kronor (dlrs  978,000) is divided equally among the three.
Last year, the prize  went to Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California at San  Francisco for his discovery of prions, the rogue proteins identified  as causing Mad Cow Disease.
Winners generally aren't known outside  the medical community, although the list of laureates contains a few  familiar names including Ivan Pavlov, tuberculosis pioneer Robert  Koch, and DNA researchers Francis Crick and James Watson.
Generally,  they are researchers who have made discoveries that sound small on  paper but carry large consequences.
Among other well-known names to  receive the prize is David Baltimore, although he shared the prize  in 1975, long before becoming one of the world's most visible AIDS  researchers.
Alan Cormack of the United States and Sir Godfrey Hounsfield  may not be familiar names, but what they won the prize for in 1979  or  CAT scan.
The medicine prize was the second of the six Nobels to be  announced this year.
Last Thursday, the literature prize went to Portuguese  novelist Jose Saramago.
The physics and chemistry prizes will be announced  Tuesday, the economics prize on Wednesday and the peace prize on Friday.
All the announcements are in Stockholm, except for the peace prize  which is given in Oslo, Norway.
The prizes are presented on Dec. 10,  the anniversary of the death of Alfred Nobel, the industrialist and  inventor of dynamite whose will established the prizes.
Jose Saramago, a 75-year-old Portuguese writer who took up literature  relatively late in life and whose richly imaginative novels soon won  him a following of loyal readers across Europe and vocal admirers  in the United States, was awarded this year's Nobel Prize in Literature  Thursday by the Swedish Academy in Stockholm.
A tall, balding man  whose large, tinted glasses often give him a mien of severity, Saramago  and one of the first card-carrying  Communists _ to become a Nobel Literature laureate.
He is also the  fourth successive European to win the prize, after Italy's Dario Fo  in 1997, Poland's Wislawa Szymborska in 1996 and Ireland's Seamus  Heaney in 1995.
In its citation Thursday, the Swedish Academy praised  Saramago ``who with parables sustained by imagination, compassion  and irony continually enables us once again to apprehend an elusory  reality.''
Although Saramago discounts the influence of Latin American  ``magical realism'' on his work, his novels often use the supernatural,  allegorical, paradoxical and irrational as ways of addressing complex  questions of faith and existence.
Many of his novels are set against  a backdrop of political or historical events, but it is his unwavering  concern for individual fate that gives his fiction its distinctive  voice and independent character.
His best-known books, all published  in the United States, are ``Baltasar and Blimunda,'' ``The Year of  the Death of Ricardo Reis,'' ``The Stone Raft'' and ``The History  of the Siege of Lisbon.''
His latest book available in English, ``Blindness,''  in which all but one of his characters mysteriously become blind,  was described as his ``symphonic new novel'' by Andrew Miller in The  New York Times Book Review on Sunday.
``There is no cynicism and there  are no conclusions, just a clear-eyed and compassionate acknowledgment  of things as they are, a quality than can only honestly be termed  as wisdom,'' Miller, himself a novelist, wrote.
``We should be grateful  when it is handed to us in such generous measures.''
Saramago learned  of his award Thursday at Frankfurt airport, where he was preparing  to fly home via Madrid to Lanzarote in the Canary Islands after attending  the Frankfurt Book Fair.
Earlier this week, he participated in a round-table  of Portuguese writers on the topic, ``Why I am still a Communist.''
He immediately returned to the fair where he was received with cheers  and bouquets of roses.
``I am personally very happy for myself,''  he said.
``I am also happy for my country.''
Later he told a news  conference: ``The Portuguese language had to wait 100 years for this.
There have to be ways and means of protecting the language so that  it does not become a museum, but is something that is alive.
The writer's  role is to protect it and work with it.''
The award was also celebrated  in Lisbon, where President Jorge Sampaio described it as ``recognition  of Portuguese culture,'' while the local Communist leader, Carlos  Carvalho, saw it as a credit to his own party.
``As a member of our  party,'' he noted solemnly, ``Saramago makes a great contribution  to our ideals and to the struggle for social change.''
The laureate's  fiction, though, is never overtly political.
Saramago, whose body  of work includes poetry, essays, plays and a journal as well as 10  novels, is unusual for having emerged as a major literary figure only  at the age of 60.
His novels have since been translated into 30 languages,  selling particularly well in Portugal, Brazil, Spain, Italy and Germany.
While he has not been well known in the United States, his novels  have always been critically well received there.
For all his late  blooming, though, Saramago long dreamed of becoming a writer.
Born  into a family of rural laborers and raised in Lisbon, he was forced  by poverty to leave school while a teen-ager and learn the trade of  car mechanic.
Yet he managed to publish a small novel at the age of  25.
Later, he found work at a Lisbon publishing company, but the oppressive  and censorial atmosphere of the Salazar dictatorship discouraged him  from writing.
It was only after Portugal's April 1974 revolution that  Saramago felt free to find his voice.
A member of the Portuguese Communist  Party since 1969, he served as editor of a Lisbon newspaper, Diario  de Noticias, during an 18-month period when the left looked likely  to seize power in Portugal.
But an anti-Communist backlash in November  1975 forced him out of the newspaper and he began translating French  texts into Portuguese to make ends meet.
In the late 1970s, he also  turned to novels, publishing three in succession in 1977, 1978 and  1980.
But it was in 1982, with ``Baltasar and Blimunda'' (``Memorial  do Convento'' in Portuguese), that he achieved his international breakthrough.
``This is a rich, multifaceted and polysemous text that at the same  time has a historical, a social and an individual perspective,'' the  Swedish Academy noted Thursday.
``The insight and wealth of imagination  to which it gives expression is characteristic of Saramago's work  as a whole.''
Set in 18th-century Portugal during the Inquisition,  the book tells of the baroque efforts of a war veteran, Baltasar,  and a visionary, Blimunda, to escape to the heavens aboard a flying  machine powered by human wills captured by the hypersensory Blimunda.
This fantastic story takes place against the very real background  of the tortuous construction of the massive Mafra Convent by thousands  of men held in the grip of the Inquisition.
When the novel was published  in the United States in 1987, Irving Howe acclaimed it as ``brilliant''  in The New York Times Book Review.
``Mr. Saramago is constantly present  as a voice of European skepticism, a connoisseur of ironies,'' Howe  wrote.
``I think I hear in his prose echoes of Enlightenment sensibility,  caustic and shrewd.''
In his next novel, ``The Year of the Death of  Ricardo Reis,'' which is also a homage to the great Portuguese poet  Fernando Pessoa, who appears in it as a ghost, Saramago sets his story  in the early years of the Salazar dictatorship, with the tale following  the romantic and sexual misadventures of a poet-physician.
Writing  in The New York Times, Herbert Mitgang called it ``a rare, old-fashioned  novel _ at once lyrical, symbolic and meditative.''
Saramago, whose  sense of literary freedom is evident in his unconventional punctuation  and conflicting use of tenses, sought a different form of freedom  in ``The Stone Raft,'' where he imagines the confusion unleashed when  the Iberian peninsula suddenly breaks free from the rest of Europe  and begins drifting toward the New World and threatens to collide  with the Azores.
To the delight of Britons, Gibraltar is left behind.
Unsurprisingly, the bitter satire, ``The Gospel According to Jesus  Christ,'' proved controversial, with God shown as using the innocently  human Jesus to create a religion that has spawned violence and intolerance.
When a Lisbon jury picked the book as Portugal's entry for a 1992  European literary prize, the country's conservative government vetoed  the choice as blasphemous.
It was then that Saramago decided to leave  his small, crowded apartment in Lisbon for the relative solitude of  Lanzarote.
``The History of the Siege of Lisbon,'' published in the  United States last year, is a whimsical tale set in motion by the  decision of a humble proofreader at a publishing house to insert the  word ``not'' into a key passage in a standard history of Portugal.
With this ``lunatic creative act,'' as Edmund White put it in The  New York Times Book Review, he ``totally derails the national saga''  by affirming that the crusaders did not in fact help liberate 12th-century  Lisbon from Moorish occupation.
White ended his July 1997 review with  a prescient remark.
``Word has it that Saramago is overdue for a Nobel  Prize,'' he noted.
``No candidate has a better claim to lasting recognition  than this novelist.''
With the recent publication of ``Blindness''  in the United States, only Saramago's latest novel, ``Todos os Nomes,''  or ``All the Names'' still awaits translation into English.
In the  tradition of Andre Gide and Julian Green, though, he has now embarked  on his journals.
The fourth volume of these ``Cadernos de Lanzarote''  was just published in Lisbon.
Saramago will receive his Nobel Prize,  worth the equivalent of $967,500 this year, at a ceremony in Stockholm  on Dec. 10.
Three American pharmacologists were awarded the Nobel Prize on Monday  for their surprising discoveries of how natural production of a gas,  nitric oxide, can mediate a wide variety of bodily actions.
Those  include widening blood vessels, helping to regulate blood pressure,  initiating erections, battling infections, preventing formation of  blood clots and acting as a signal molecule in the nervous system.
The prize, for physiology or medicine, went to Dr. Robert Furchgott,  82, of the State University of New York in Brooklyn; Dr. Louis Ignarro,  57, of the University of California at Los Angeles, and Dr. Ferid  Murad, 62, of the University of Texas Medical School in Houston.
The  announcement of a significant phase of the discoveries by two of Monday's  winners at a meeting in 1986 ``elicited an avalanche of research activities  in many different laboratories around the world,'' said the Nobel  committee at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, which makes the  awards.
Its citation said that the research had led to new treatments  for treating heart and lung diseases, shock and impotence.
Ignarro  ``discovered the principle that led to the use of Viagra as an anti-impotency  drug,'' said Dr. Sten Orrenius, a professor of toxicology at the Karolinska  Institute.
Nitric oxide starts the process by which blood vessels  in the penis widen to produce an erection.
Nitric oxide, a chemical  relative of the anesthetic gas nitrous oxide, is better known as a  common air pollutant formed when nitrogen burns, such as in automobile  exhaust fumes.
But scientists now know it is distributed widely in  the body.
The discoveries honored on Monday were made largely during  the 1980s at a time when scientists knew that bacteria produced nitric  oxide but did not think it was important in animals and humans.
The  award committee said that ``this was the first discovery that a gas  can act as a signal molecule in the organism.''
The discovery was  startling because ``nitric oxide is totally different from any other  known signal molecule and so unstable that it is converted to nitrate  and nitrite within 10 seconds.''
Recipients of the Nobel Prize, including  some who have lobbied for it for years, often profess surprise on  learning of their award.
This year's winners were refreshingly candid.
Furchgott said he had planned to sleep late on Monday, a holiday,  but was awakened at 5:30 at his home in Hewlett, N.Y.
He said that  he knew that previous Nobel prize winners had nominated him for the  award, but that he still was ``somewhat surprised'' to receive it.
``I guess I had some good friends voting,'' Furchgott said.
He said  he could not get back to sleep.
Murad said he had ``pondered the odds  and thought that maybe I could win the prize, if not now maybe in  a couple of years.''
He described the award as the culmination of  a career and said that ``when it happens, it's incredible.''
Ignarro  was traveling in Italy.
Dr. Gerald Levey, the dean of UCLA, said ``we  actually anticipated this day for about four years now.''
The three  1998 winners never worked together, ``but we talked a lot of shop  talk at meetings,'' Furchgott said.
Dr. Valentin Fuster, the president  of the American Heart Association and the head of cardiology at Mt.  Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, said that ``the discovery of nitric oxide  and its function is one of the most important in the history of cardiovascular  medicine.''
Doctors have learned from the prize-winning research that  in heart disease, the endothelium, or inner lining of arteries, makes  less nitric oxide.
Drugs like nitroglycerine, however, can help replenish  stores of nitric oxide.
Now, drug companies are trying to develop  more powerful heart drugs based on newer knowledge of nitric oxide's  role as a signal molecule.
Researchers have also learned that nitric  oxide produced in the endothelium rapidly spreads through cell membranes  to the underlying muscle cells in arteries.
Then it can shut off muscle  contractions in the arteries, thus widening them and reducing blood  pressure.
Inhalation of nitric oxide gas has saved the lives of some  people with certain lung diseases, particularly infants who have developed  dangerously high pulmonary blood pressure.
But regulating the amount  of nitric oxygen inhaled is critical because too much can be lethal.
Nitric oxide plays a harmful role in the collapse of the circulatory  system, or shock, resulting from overwhelming microbial infections.
Bacteria can release products that cause white blood cells to release  enormous amounts of nitric oxide.
As a result, blood pressure drops.
Scientists are trying to develop drugs that can block production of  nitric oxide in such infections.
White blood cells also play a role  in attacking cancerous cells.
The gas can also induce a type of programmed  cell death known as apoptosis.
Scientists are studying nitric oxide's  effects on the immune system to stop the growth of cancers.
They are  also exploring nitric oxide's possible role in regulating body temperature.
Doctors are measuring the production of nitric oxide in the lungs  and intestines to diagnose a number of ailments, including asthma  and colitis, and are studying its role in menstruation.
Nitric oxide  formed in nerve cells spreads rapidly in all directions to activate  cells in the vicinity and influence many functions, like behavior  and the mobility of the intestinal tract.
Nitric oxide is also being  studied for its role in smell and memory.
Nitric oxide's role is still  unfolding; scientists have written thousands of scientific papers  about it in recent years and have started a journal, Nitric Oxide.
The Nobel committee cited Furchgott for performing in 1980 ``an ingenious  experiment'' that showed that a drug, acetylcholine, widened blood  vessels only if the inner layer, or endothelium, was intact.
Furchgott  concluded that blood vessels widen because the endothelial cells produce  a signal molecule that he called EDRF, for endothelium-derived relaxing  factor, which relaxes smooth muscle cells in blood vessels.
Furchgott's  findings ``led to a quest to identify the factor,'' the citation said.
(OPTIONAL TRIM CAN BEGIN HERE) The citation did not refer to an accident  in Furchgott's laboratory that played a major role in his discoveries.
In 1995, in the Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Furchgott  wrote that on May 5, 1978, in the first of a series of planned experiments  on arteries from a rabbit, a technician did not follow directions  correctly.
The technician performed one step of the experiment before  instead of after he was supposed to wash out a drug used in an earlier  phase of the experiment.
Furchgott expected that the arteries would  contract.
Instead, they relaxed.
It was the first time he had seen  the drugs under study produce such a reaction, and he used the insight  to plan additional experiments.
Furchgott omitted the technician's  name in that paper and in another in 1996 in the Journal of the American  Medical Association.
On Monday, he said David Davidson was the technician.
(OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS HERE) The committee cited Ignarro for concluding  in 1986, from ``a brilliant series of analyses'' conducted independently  of Furchgott, that EDRF was identical to nitric oxide.
Furchgott said  he and Ignarro made the announcement at the same symposium in 1986  at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., but the papers were not published  until 1998.
Murad was cited for work conducted over the years while  he worked at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Stanford  University in Palo Alto, Calif., and Abbott Laboratories in Illinois.
Murad said he felt fortunate to have heard Furchgott report his early  work on EDRF in 1980.
Murad showed that a gas could regulate important  cellular functions and studied how nitroglycerin and related heart  drugs led to the release of nitric oxide.
(OPTIONAL TRIM CAN BEGIN  HERE) In his early training at Case Western Reserve University in  Cleveland, Murad worked in the laboratory of Dr. Theodore Rall, who  also trained another Nobel prize winner, Dr. Alfred Gilman of the  University of Texas Southwestern in Dallas.
Gilman said in an interview  that he believed Rall, now retired and living in Charlottesville,  Va., was the first scientist to have trained two Nobel Prize winners.
In addition, Rall worked with Dr. Earl Sutherland, who also won a  Nobel Prize.
In his early reseach years, Murad worked on a chemical  known as cyclic guanosine monophosphate, which later turned out to  be critical in the nitric oxide story.
Murad's trainees referred to  the early work as ``dumping experiments'' because all they could do  in the laboratory at the time was crudely add various hormones and  agents to slices of tissue, cell cultures.
It took years to develop  the more refined techniques that led to the understanding of nitric  oxide's many roles in the body.
But for many years, most of the scientific  community was skeptical of the ability of a free radical like nitric  oxide to activate an enzyme, Murad said in 1996 when he and Furchgott  shared the Albert Lasker basic medical research award.
(OPTIONAL TRIM  ENDS HERE) The Nobel Prizes were created by the will of Alfred Nobel,  whose invention of dynamite involved the use of nitroglycerine.
The  award committee noted an odd twist to this year's award.
When Nobel  developed chest pain from heart disease, it said, he refused to take  the nitroglycerine his doctor prescribed because he knew it caused  headache.
Nobel dismissed nitroglycerine's benefit in the relief of  chest pain.
Nobel died in 1896.
The prize that the three scientists  will share is now worth $938,000.
Prior to his appointment as foreign minister by Israeli Prime Minister Natanyahu in 1998, seasoned warrior Ariel Sharon announced that if appointed, he would not shake hands with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.
The remark fit Sharon's long history of unyielding bellicosity towards Palestine.
When he was appointed some thought that Netanyahu was placating Israel's far right wing while striving for peace.
Others saw it as a move to scuttle the peace effort.
Arab commentary deemed the appointment "tantamount to disaster" and "the bullet of mercy" to the peace process.
Peace talks in the U.S. were in the offing with the outcome in doubt.
Appointment of Ariel Sharon as Foreign Minister by PM Netanyahu does not bode well for the peace process.
His appointment is surprising in that the two have differed on withdrawal from Palestinian territory and is seen as an effort to placate the right.
Sharon, 70, is an unapologetic warrior on the battlefield and in partisan politics.
He brings heavy baggage: right-wing intransigence and responsibility for failing to prevent the killings of 460 unarmed Palestinians in refugee camps during the Lebanon incursion.
Sharon has said that he will not shake Arafat's hand and his appointment is seen as a "bullet of mercy" for the Middle East peace process.
Ariel Sharon was named Israeli foreign minister just weeks before a scheduled peace summit in the US, aimed at negotiating an Israeli withdrawal from 13% of the West Bank.
Arabs reacted strongly and said the hard-line, right-wing, warrior and former defense minister would kill any progress for a settlement in the mid-East.
Many blame Sharon for a 1982 massacre of Palestinian civilians at refugee camps in Lebanon.
Others believed his appointment was an effort to placate the far right and gain their support for the Netanyahu government and the concessions necessary for the peace process.
Sharon vowed not to shake Yasser Arafat's hand.
In a move widely viewed as an effort to placate the far right as he moves to withdraw from more West Bank land, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu named hardliner Ariel Sharon foreign minister and chief peace negotiator.
Sharon, a military leader with legendary victories in the 1967 and 1973 Mideast wars, is infamous in the Arab world as the defense minister in the 1982 invasion of Lebanon during which Lebanese Christian militiamen, Israeli allies, slaughtered hundreds of unarmed Palestinians.
His appointment as lead negotiator was denounced as a "disaster" in the Lebanese press and "a bullet of mercy to the peace process" in a Syrian paper.
Ariel Sharon, the hawkish former general tipped to be Israel's next  foreign minister, said in an interview published Sunday that if he  gets the job, he won't shake the hand of Palestinian leader Yasser  Arafat.
Sharon, who opposes ceding West Bank land to the Palestinians,  is being considered for the government's No. 2 post.
In it, he would  be a pivotal figure in reaching a final peace settlement with the  Palestinians.
``Even if I will be appointed foreign minister and run  the negotiations, I won't shake Yasser Arafat's hand,'' Sharon was  quoted as saying in the Yediot Ahronot daily.
The newspaper said Prime  Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is close to making a decision on the appointment.
Netanyahu himself has been acting foreign minister since the post  was vacated in January by David Levy, a moderate who opposed Netanyahu's  hardline negotiating strategy with the Palestinians.
Sharon's appointment  would signal a toughening of Israel's positions and could further  strain relations with Arab neighbors.
Sharon is the general who led  Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon, and a former housing minister who  strengthened Jewish settlement in territories Israel captured from  Syria, Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Mideast war.
Sharon told the Haaretz  newspaper he would accept the foreign minister's job if he were allowed  to ``act to strengthen the country.''
Brief biography of Ariel Sharon, named Israel's foreign minister:  1928: Born in Kfar Mallal in British-ruled Palestine.
1948 Mideast  war: Fights as junior officer, wounded three times.
1953: Forms elite  commando unit ``101'' and leads it on raids against Palestinian guerrillas  who had been attacking Israeli border villages.
1956 Sinai campaign:  Commands a parachute brigade that is dropped behind enemy lines, captures  a key pass and cuts off Egyptian army's retreat.
1967 Mideast war:  Commands an armored division that breaks through into central Sinai  Peninsula.
1973 Mideast war: Commands a division that crosses the  Suez Canal, turning the tide of the war on the Egyptian front.
1977:  Elected to parliament and appointed minister of agriculture in the  government of Menachem Begin.
1981: Defense minister in Begin government.
1982-83: Invades Lebanon in June 1982 to drive out PLO guerrillas,  but is held indirectly responsible for Lebanese Christian militiamen's  September 1982 massacre of hundreds of Palestinian civilians in the  Sabra and Shatilla refugee camps south of Beirut.
As a result, Sharon  resigns as defense minister and holds only second-rank posts for next  15 years.
1984-90: Serves as trade minister in national unity government  headed by Yitzhak Shamir of Likud and Shimon Peres of Labor.
1990-92:  Serves as housing minister, presiding over settlement drive in the  West Bank and Gaza Strip.
1996: Named infrastructure minister in Netanyahu  government.
Oct. 9, 1998: Netanyahu appoints him foreign minister,  places him in charge of negotiations with the Palestinians, marking  his return to the center of Israeli politics and world political arena.
Ariel Sharon's appointment as the Israeli foreign minister serves  as ``the bullet of mercy'' for the Middle East peace process, an official  Syrian newspaper said Saturday.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  named Sharon foreign minister on Friday, effectively putting the hard-liner  in charge of negotiating Israel's final borders with the Palestinians.
Many Arabs know Sharon for his role in Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon.
An Israeli tribunal looking into the invasion found him indirectly  responsible for the massacre of hundreds of Palestinian refugees by  Christian Lebanese militiamen at two Beirut camps.
``Sharon's appointment  as foreign minister is a bullet of mercy to the (peace) process, which  has stopped on all tracks,'' said Tishrin, which often speaks for  the Syrian government.
Syrian-Israel peace talks broke off more than  two years ago.
Syria and the previous Israeli government had reached  an informal agreement on a full withdrawal from the Golan Heights,  which Israel captured from Syria in 1967.
But Netanyahu's government  rejected that agreement, saying it was never completed.
Netanyahu  has sent ``a clear message to all those who are deluding themselves  to give  up their illusions,'' the paper said.
Ariel Sharon's appointment as the Israeli foreign minister serves  as ``the bullet of mercy'' for the Middle East peace process, an official  Syrian newspaper said Saturday.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  named Sharon foreign minister on Friday, effectively putting the hard-liner  in charge of negotiating Israel's final borders with the Palestinians.
Many Arabs know Sharon for his role in Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon.
An Israeli tribunal looking into the invasion found him indirectly  responsible for the massacre of hundreds of Palestinian refugees by  Christian Lebanese militiamen at two Beirut camps.
``Sharon's appointment  as foreign minister is a bullet of mercy to the (peace) process, which  has stopped on all tracks,'' said Tishrin, which often speaks for  the Syrian government.
Peace talks between Syria and Israel broke  off more than two years ago.
Syria and the previous Israeli government  had reached an informal agreement on a full withdrawal from the Golan  Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967.
But Netanyahu's  government rejected that agreement, saying it was never completed.
Netanyahu has sent ``a clear message to all those who are deluding  and betting on Israel (to) change its anti-peace stand  _ to give up their illusions,'' the paper said.
Ariel Sharon's appointment as the Israeli foreign minister serves  as ``the bullet of mercy'' for the Middle East peace process, an official  Syrian newspaper said Saturday.
In Beirut, Lebanese newspapers denounced  the appointment as a ``disaster'' for peace.
Many Arabs know Sharon  for his role in Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon.
An Israeli tribunal  looking into the invasion found him indirectly responsible for the  massacre of hundreds of Palestinian refugees by pro-Israeli Christian  Lebanese militiamen at two Beirut camps.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  named Sharon foreign minister on Friday, effectively putting the hard-liner  in charge of negotiating Israel's final borders with the Palestinians.
The appointment ``is a bullet of mercy to the (peace) process, which  has stopped on all tracks,'' said Tishrin newspaper, which often speaks  for the Syrian government.
It said Netanyahu has sent ``a clear message  to all those who are deluding themselves'' into thinking that Israel  will change its anti-peace stand.
Syrian-Israeli peace talks broke  off more than two years ago.
Syria and the previous Israeli government  had reached an informal agreement on a full withdrawal from the Golan  Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967.
But Netanyahu's  government rejected that agreement, saying it was never completed.
Lebanon's peace talks with Israel also have been suspended for more  than two years pending progress in Syrian-Israeli negotiations.
The  independent An-Nahar newspaper quoted Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik  Hariri as saying: Sharon's appointment makes Lebanon and most world  states ask: ``Does the Israeli government really want peace as it  is trying to delude the world?''
An-Nahar's columnist, Sahar Baasiri,  said in a front-page comment: `The mere announcement that he (Sharon)  will lead negotiations (with Arabs) is tantamount to disaster.''
``The  man is a hero of Arab defeats; he is the firmest believer in the expansion  of the land of Israel and in resolving the Palestinian problem at  the expense of Jordan.
He is a liar,'' Baasiri wrote.
The conservative  Ad-Diyar newspaper said in a front-page comment: ``The history of  Ariel Sharon is known.
He has called for burning Beirut, annexing  the Golan, occupying the (West) Bank and slaughtering and displacing  the Arabs everywhere.''
Ariel Sharon's appointment as the Israeli foreign minister serves  as ``the bullet of mercy'' for the Middle East peace process, an official  Syrian newspaper said Saturday.
In Beirut, Lebanese newspapers denounced  the appointment as a ``disaster'' for peace.
Prime Minister Benjamin  Netanyahu named Sharon foreign minister on Friday, effectively putting  the hard-liner in charge of negotiating Israel's final borders with  the Palestinians.
Many Arabs know Sharon for his role in Israel's  1982 invasion of Lebanon.
An Israeli tribunal looking into the invasion  found him indirectly responsible for the massacre of hundreds of Palestinian  refugees by Christian Lebanese militiamen at two Beirut camps.
``Sharon's  appointment as foreign minister is a bullet of mercy to the (peace)  process, which has stopped on all tracks,'' said Tishrin, which often  speaks for the Syrian government.
Peace talks between Syria and Israel  broke off more than two years ago.
Syria and the previous Israeli  government had reached an informal agreement on a full withdrawal  from the Golan Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967.
But Netanyahu's government rejected that agreement, saying it was  never formalized.
Netanyahu has sent ``a clear message to all those  and betting on Israel (to) change its  anti-peace stand _ to give up their illusions,'' the paper said.
Lebanon's  peace talks with Israel also have been suspended for more than two  years pending progress in Syrian-Israeli negotiations.
The independent  An-Nahar newspaper quoted Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri as  asking, ``Does the Israeli government really want peace as it is trying  to delude the world?''
In a front page comment, Sahar Baasiri, said  ``The mere announcement that he (Sharon) will lead negotiations (with  Arabs) is tantamount to disaster.''
A senior Palestinian negotiator says the success of a peace summit  this week near Washington depends on a clear-cut ``yes'' from Israeli  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to an American initiative.
``It  is time to deliver,'' Saeb Erekat told reporters Sunday night after  a meeting of the Palestinian Cabinet.
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat  met Jordan's Crown Prince Hassan in Amman Monday to brief him on talks  with U.S. officials on breaking the deadlock in the negotiations with  Israel.
Palestinians also were expressing growing unease over the  naming of hawkish former Israeli general Ariel Sharon as Netanyahu's  foreign minister.
Sharon, whose appointment last week was widely seen  as a bid to keep far-right allies from toppling Netanyahu's government,  has been quoted as saying he would refuse to shake the hand of Palestinian  leader Yasser Arafat.
``It's worrisome,'' Erekat said.
Previously,  the Palestinian leadership had said the appointment was an internal  Israeli affair.
Monday was a Jewish holiday and there was no immediate  Israeli comment on summit prospects.
However, the Israeli newspaper  Yediot Aharonot said over the weekend that Netanyahu's hard-line Cabinet,  due to meet Tuesday, was balking at agreeing to an American-authored  plan for an Israeli pullback in the West Bank.
Erekat said the Palestinians  hope the four-day summit, set to begin Thursday outside the U.S. capital,  would mark the end of a long round of meetings and the start of implementation  of accords.
``It depends on Mr. Netanyahu.
If he says `yes' to the  American initiative and stops attempts to change the references of  the interim agreement, we will reach an agreement in no time,'' Erekat  said.
At the table is a U.S plan for an Israeli troop withdrawal from  13 percent from the West Bank.
The Palestinians accepted the plan,  which includes security conditions they must fulfill.
Ariel Sharon has a law degree, and fancies himself a farmer.
But for  more than three decades his role in Israeli public life has been that  of an unapologetic warrior, first on the battlefield and later in  the bare-knuckled combat of domestic partisan politics.
With his blunt  tongue, barrel chest and bar-scrapper's demeanor, Sharon at 70 is  to his many critics here a caricature of right-wing intransigence.
To his equally numerous admirers he is a living symbol of unrelenting  dedication to Israel's national survival.
Still conveying physical  vigor within an impressively expanding frame, he remains pugnacious  to a fault.
Both his friends and foes would agree that the new foreign  minister is not a natural diplomat.
A Zionist underground operative  as a teen-ager and an infantry commander wounded in the 1948 war of  independence, Sharon has fought, and fought memorably, in virtually  every major military engagement in his country's history.
He commanded  the legendary armored division that crossed and seized control of  the Sinai in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
He returned to active service  after a three-month retirement to lead Israel's badly outgunned armored  divisions to victory, again in the Sinai, in the war of 1973.
As defense  minister in 982, Sharon led Israel's invasion of Lebanon, defying  international condemnation with unrelenting artillery assaults on  Beirut neighborhoods and Palestinian refugee camps believed by the  Israeli high command to be Palestine Liberation Organization redoubts.
To some, both in Israel and abroad, Sharon's Lebanese incursion will  forever be associated with the massacres by Lebanese Christian Phalangists,  allies of the Israelis, of a reported 460 unarmed Palestinians in  the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps.
In an official inquiry in Jerusalem  and in a subsequent libel trial he brought in New York, Sharon was  seen to have effectively refuted charges that he knew of and condoned  the Phalangists' attacks beforehand.
But the government investigating  commission held that his failure to prevent the killings constituted  grounds for his dismissal from the Defense Ministry.
Since the 1982  invasion, Israel has been mired in an unpopular open-ended occupation  of southern Lebanon, an operation with constant casualties among young  inductees for which Sharon is still often blamed.
To many Israelis,  however, the Lebanese incursion was ultimately a risk worth taking,  as it succeeded in crushing the PLO militarily and driving its forces  far from Israel's borders.
The PLO's defeat at Sharon's hands in Lebanon  led eventually to its renunciation of armed warfare against Israel  and embrace of the peace negotiation process for which Sharon as Foreign  Minister will now be responsible.
In civilian life he proved as savvy  a political operator as he was a military strategist, helping to break  Labor's hold on the Knesset and making himself an indispensable binding  force within successive fractious Likud coalitions.
His investiture  as foreign minister next week will mark his sixth Cabinet appointment  in 21 years.
He previously held the agriculture and defense portfolios  under Prime Minister Menachem Begin, trade and housing in Yitzhak  essentially, a  settlements support directorate _ in the administration of Benjamin  Netanyahu.
As a key member of the ``inner cabinet'' in Begin's first  government, Sharon began the construction and systematic expansion  of new Israeli housing developments throughout the West Bank, Gaza  Strip and Galilee area territories occupied by Israel since 1967,  a policy that he and his opponents alike would agree remains his signal  domestic political achievement.
At 70, Sharon remains one of the great  polarizing fixtures of Israeli political life.
An acerbic critic of  the other leading soldier-politician of his generation, Yitzhak Rabin,  Sharon attacked the Oslo peace accords as ``terrible and dangerous''  and condemned Rabin's negotiating partner, Yasser Arafat, as a ``war  criminal.''
He angrily opposed any diplomatic discussions of the return  of even an internationally demilitarized Golan Heights to Syria.
A  secular Jew in the manner typical of his generation of native-born  Israelis, Sharon became an outspoken and effective defender of new  Orthodox Jewish settlements in the predominantly Palestinian areas  of the West Bank, cementing his position as a bridge between the traditional  secular right and the new militant religious factions within the Likud  coalition.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appointed Ariel Sharon, a hawkish  former defense minister, to be Israeli foreign minister on Friday  in an effort to placate the far right as he moves closer to turning  over more West Bank land to the Palestinians.
With his appointment,  Sharon, 70, an ardent advocate for Jewish settlements in the West  Bank, is expected to quell domestic opposition to the concessions  that Netanyahu is supposedly prepared to make at a peace summit conference  in the Washington area next week.
For months, Sharon, who is currently  the minister of national infrastructures, has maintained that redeploying  Israeli troops from more than an additional 9 percent of the West  Bank would be a ``national disaster.''
In assuming the role of foreign  minister, however, he would be forced to abandon his public opposition  to Netanyahu's decision to withdraw from another 13 percent of the  even if he votes against the accord.
Sharon  will be drawn directly into the issue, since Netanyahu has appointed  him to direct the final status talks with the Palestinians, which  would follow the signing of an interim peace agreement.
Last week  Sharon told an Israeli newspaper that, negotiations or not, he would  never shake the hand of Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, whom  he has long disdained.
Palestinian leaders and Israeli leftists were  divided in their reactions, in similar ways.
Some professed to be  aghast, and some, like Nabil Sha'ath, the Palestinian transportation  minister, said they were willing to ``forget history'' if Sharon's  appointment provided Netanyahu the political backbone to sign a deal.
In Washington, White House and State Department officials pledged  to work closely with Sharon and emphasized that the personnel in an  Israeli government are an internal affair.
``Arik Sharon is the most  fitting person in the state of Israel for the position of foreign  minister,'' Netanyahu said, using his nickname.
``He brings with him  rich experience, creativity, proven working ability and I think that  he well knows both the wounds and damages of war as well as the fruits  of peace.
``Sharon has never hidden his beliefs,'' he continued, ``and  his words have influenced the way that the redeployment will be carried  out if not its extent.''
In a nod to Sharon, Netanyahu has decided  on a new location for the nature reserve that would constitute 3 percent  of the West Bank land.
It was supposed to be in the Judean desert  near Israel's eastern border, which Sharon argued would pose a strategic  security risk.
Instead, it was decided on Thursday that the nature  reserve would instead be on the slopes of the Hebron hills, much closer  to existing Jewish settlements.
Many Israeli political observers believe  that Netanyahu has eviscerated his right-wing opposition with this  appointment, signaling that he genuinely intends to bring home a peace  agreement.
``Who is the right wing now if Sharon is in the foreign  ministry and negotiating with the Palestinians?''
asked Uzi Benziman,  an editorial board member of the newspaper Haaretz and author of a  critical biography of Sharon.
``It will be just the settlers and some  real hard-liners who don't comprise more than 15 percent of public  opinion.
So it's really quite an intelligent move, suggesting that  Netanyahu means business in trying to get an agreement.''
But the  Palestinians took the news hard, and read it differently.
``I think  it's a clear-cut message from Bibi,'' Saeb Erekat, a lead negotiator  for the Palestinians, said, using Netanyahu's nickname.
``I imagine  people will try to explain Netanyahu's intentions as trying to get  the support of the right.
What he is trying to do is make peace with  the right wing at the expense of making peace with us.
It means he  wants to continue on the path of non-negotiations, because he wants  to continue to be prime minister at any cost.''
Sharon declined to  be interviewed Friday because his appointment must still be approved  by the Cabinet on Tuesday, an approval that is expected.
An aide,  Raanan Gisin, said Sharon accepted the position so that he could ``stem  the tide of dangerous developments and contribute to fighting the  risks facing Israel.''
A retired general who fought in every Israeli  war, Sharon, 70, is a leading figure of the Likud Party who has done  much battle with the Likud prime minister.
At the most recent party  convention, he said that Netanyahu didn't know his right hand from  his left, which the prime minister dismissed Friday as a comment made  ``in the height of political arguments.''
And when Netanyahu first  formed his Cabinet in 1996, the fact that he did not give Sharon a  senior position caused an 11th-hour crisis before the swearing-in  ceremony.
Sharon retreated to his family farm in the Negev, and David  Levy, who had been named foreign minister, said he would not serve  unless Sharon was given a post.
Netanyahu then created a Cabinet job,  the minister of infrastructures, especially for Sharon.
Levy resigned  in January after a lengthy power struggle with the prime minister,  and since then Netanyahu has been serving as his own foreign minister.
Sharon, a member of the old guard, has a complicated political past,  highlighted by a string of military victories, and checkered, to many,  by his indirect role, as defense minister, in the Lebanese Christian  Phalangist massacre of unarmed civilians in the Sabra and Shatila  refugee camps in Lebanon in 1982.
Many Israelis, even those who despise  his politics, see him as a strong, experienced figure who knows his  mind and who is capable of being moderate when he has power.
Friday  afternoon, the right-wing political establishment nearly universally  applauded the appointment.
Uzi Landau, who is a Likud hard-liner,  said he was relieved to hear confirmed what has been a rumor for weeks.
``I feel more safe about the negotiations if Minister Sharon is directly  involved,'' said Landau, who heads the Parliament's security and foreign  affairs committee.
``Undoubtedly it will facilitate the situation  for the prime minister to show the right that Arik Sharon is identified  with the program, so therefore they can live with it.''
Right before  the announcement was made, leaders of the National Religious Party,  who had threatened to bring down the government, changed their combative  tone.
They emerged mollified from meetings with Netanyahu late Thursday,  saying they would leave the government intact.
Still, they would not  connect their change of heart to the nomination of Sharon.
``Appointing  Sharon is a political step we like very much,'' said Shaul Yahalom,  the minister of transportation and a leader of the National Religious  Party.
``But it will have no effect on how we see the peace agreement.
Our concern there is on whether any of the 160 Jewish settlements  are endangered.''
The appointment of Sharon comes against a backdrop  of violence that has erupted this week.
Friday, a 19-year-old Israeli  soldier, Michal Adato, was stabbed to death by a Palestinian man as  she got off a bus in her hometown, the settlement of Tomer in the  Jordan Valley.
Netanyahu reported that he had received a sympathy  note from Arafat, who condemned the attack.
Also Friday, in the continuing  clashes between Palestinian youths and soldiers in the divided city  of Hebron, 32 Palestinians were lightly injured by rubber bullets  after the funeral of a Palestinian protester shot dead on Thursday.
After Netanyahu made the announcement Friday, an Israeli reporter  introduced a question by stating that Netanyahu had diminished the  political threat from the right wing by appointing Sharon.
``Are you  willing to sign on that?''
Netanyahu said.
``I do not know that.
I  do know one thing that when you are dependent on the vote of one or  two people you can never know what will be.''
He was referring to  his razor-thin majority in parliament _ which some analysts perceive  to be his key motivator in appointing Sharon.
``More than anything  else, this reflects the political weakness of Netanyahu,'' said Yaron  Ezrahi, a leading intellectual and critic of the prime minister.
``He  has recognized that the next redeployment is inevitable if he doesn't  want to be seen as contributing to the wave of political violence  that would follow a failure.
But he doesn't have the domestic political  power to carry out the big decision on his own.''
The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 10: Just  days before heading to the United States for critical negotiations  with Palestinian leaders, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu jolted  the Middle East peace effort with the appointment of Ariel Sharon  as Israeli foreign minister.
The most optimistic reading is that Sharon,  long an implacable foe of the Palestinians, is prepared to make peace  with them and then sell it to the Israelis who are most opposed.
Unfortunately,  he is also capable of wrecking the entire peace effort.
Much will  depend on whether Netanyahu can control his strong-willed aide, a  goal that has eluded other Israeli leaders.
Like a political typhoon,  Sharon has roared across Israeli life for better than three decades  as a brilliant military commander, a reckless defense minister and  an ardent conservative, often leaving destruction in his wake.
He  still bears the burden of his role in the massacre of hundreds of  Palestinians by Christian militiamen in Lebanon in 1982.
An Israeli  inquiry found he was indirectly responsible for the killings at the  Sabra and Shatila refugee camps.
As a leader of the most conservative  wing of the Likud party, Sharon can help Netanyahu hold together his  shaky Cabinet during potentially decisive negotiations with Yasser  Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
That will be fine if Sharon is willing  to play a constructive role in the peace talks himself.
But such behavior  is not likely to be the first impulse of a man who has famously said  he would never shake hands with Arafat.
Since Netanyahu has designated  Sharon as his chief negotiator, the new foreign minister will soon  have the opportunity to act more responsibly.
The first order of business  when the two sides get together next week outside Washington is to  wrap up negotiations over the further withdrawal of Israeli forces  from the West Bank coupled with security guarantees from the Palestinians.
Sharon can show statesmanship by helping Netanyahu close this deal,  even though it is opposed by the Israeli settlers whose cause Sharon  has long championed.
Success in these talks would clear the way for  the last and most difficult negotiations about a permanent settlement,  including the shape and status of a Palestinian state and the future  of Jerusalem.
If Sharon ever hopes to overcome the shame of Sabra  and Shatila, he must become a force for peace in the Middle East.
In December 1998 a story broke that relatives of International Olympic Committee (IOC) members had received $400,000 in scholarships from promoters of Salt Lake City for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games.
The IOC immediately ordered a top-level investigation.
Senior IOC official Marc Hodler called the scholarships a "bribe".
The IOC rules stated that cities could not give any IOC member anything exceeding $150 in value.
Hodler went on to allege similar malpractice in choosing other Olympic sites and estimated that 5-7% of the 115 IOC members received compensation for their votes.
IOC President Samaranch vowed to expel any guilty member.
IOC executive board member, Marc Hodler, alleged that agents from cities bidding to host Olympic Games offer IOC members bribes to favor their city.
The allegation was made public when Holder revealed the Salt Lake City 2002 Games organizers offered scholarship payments to IOC members' relatives.
The IOC is investigating the charges and further allegations of Olympic corruption in voting for the games of 1996, 1998 and 2000.
IOC President Samaranch called for an investigation of the allegations, promising to expel anyone found guilty, and ordered Hodler to keep quiet.
Japan denied allegations of bribery to host the 1998 Winter Games.
Salt Lake Olympic bidders gave $400,000 in scholarships to 13 IOC relatives in the first case of host-city bribery.
Gifts of over $150 to IOC members or relatives is banned.
The IOC's Marc Hodler says agents and a member demanded payment to 5-7% of the IOC for votes.
Bribery was also part of 1996, 2000, and 2002 bidding.
Nagano's mayor denies bribery to host the 1998 games.
$17 million went unaccounted for.
Hodler says he won't resign but may be expelled.
The IOC head says bribe takers will be expelled, Hodler will stay.
The games will stay in Salt Lake.
IOC VP Keba Mbaye, former World Court judge, headed an inquiry.
The Salt Lake committee apologized.
In 1995 Salt Lake City was chosen to host the 2002 Winter Olympics.
The revelation that from 1991 to 1995, the city's bid committee spent nearly $400,000 on scholarships to 13 people, six of them relatives of IOC members, ignited an international scandal.
IOC rules forbid bidding cities from giving members or their relatives anything valued greater than $150; however, IOC member Marc Hodler alleges widespread corruption.
According to Hodler, agents offer to sell votes, and the bid campaigns for the 1996, 1998, and 2000 games were tainted.
A special IOC panel investigating the Salt Lake City matter will also consider the allegations of broader wrongdoing.
What started as a local controversy in Salt Lake City has evolved  into a full-blown international scandal.
The International Olympic  Committee has ordered a top-level investigation into the payment of  nearly dlrs 400,000 in scholarships to relatives of IOC members by  the Salt Lake group which won the bid for the 2002 Winter Games.
IOC  described  as ``humanitarian aid'' by Salt Lake officials _ amounted to a ``bribe.''
``I'm terribly sorry that even Salt Lake City _ by far the best place  to hold the winter games _ had to use certain methods in order to  get the vote,'' Hodler said.
IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch  assigned the international body's juridical commission _ which deals  with legal and ethical issues _ to investigate.
The inquiry will be  headed by IOC vice president Keba Mbaye of Senegal, a highly respected  former World Court judge.
The scholarship fund was first disclosed  two weeks ago by a Salt Lake radio station.
The controversy is now  bound to overshadow the routine progress report which the Salt Lake  Olympic Committee (SLOC) is scheduled to make to the IOC executive  board this weekend.
SLOC president Frank Joklik, who arrived in Lausanne  Friday, welcomed the IOC investigation.
``I think that's who the matter  should be taken up by,'' he told The Associated Press.
`` Of course,  we intend to collaborate fully with the IOC and its investigation.''
Joklik expressed concern that the case had harmed Salt Lake's image.
``I appreciate the perception of this matter is bad now,'' he said.
Asked about Hodler's accusation of bribery, Joklik said he hadn't  seen the remarks yet and couldn't reply directly.
But he sought to  distance himself from the allegations by making a distinction between  the actions of the bidding committee and the current organizing committee.
``Presumably (Hodler's) remarks are related to actions of the bid  commitee before 1995,'' Joklik said.
``The organizing committee certainly  has people of integrity and ethical standards that would stand any  investigation.
The facts were in the early 1990s when the bid committee  was operating.''
U.S. Olympic Committee deputy secretary general John  Krimsky described the controversy as ``disruptive'' for Salt Lake's  image and preparations for the games.
``It doesn't do us any good  at all,'' he said.
``I hope we see a speedy resolution to Judge Mbaye's  review.
I hope it will be a footnote.
I hope it never becomes a chapter.''
Salt Lake organizers, 10th graf pvs
Moving quickly to tackle an escalating corruption scandal, IOC leaders  questioned Salt Lake City officials Friday in the first ever investigation  into alleged vote-buying by an Olympic city.
Acting with unusual speed,  the International Olympic Committee set up a special investigative  panel that immediately summoned the organizers of the 2002 Salt Lake  Games to address the bribery allegations.
The chief investigator refused  to rule out the possibility of taking the games away from Salt Lake  though that scenario is considered highly unlikely.
Frank Joklik,  president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, and SLOC senior vice  president Dave Johnson appeared before the IOC panel for 90 minutes  Friday night.
Both sides declined to comment after the talks, saying  the inquiry was still in process.
Earlier, Joklik met with IOC president  Juan Antonio Samaranch and other top officials to provide information  and documents on the case.
The controversy centers on the payment  of nearly dlrs 400,000 in scholarships to relatives of IOC members  by the Salt Lake bid committee which won the right to stage the 2002  games.
Senior IOC executive board member Marc Hodler said the scholarship  fund _ described as ``humanitarian aid'' by Salt Lake officials _  amounted to a bribe to sway votes in the 1995 election.
It's the most  serious case of alleged ethical misconduct investigated by the IOC  since former U.S. member Robert Helmick was accused of conflict of  interest in 1991.
Helmick eventually resigned both as an IOC member  and as president of the U.S. Olympic Committee.
This is the first  time the IOC has ever investigated possible bribery by bidding cities,  despite previous rumors and allegations of corruption in other Olympic  votes.
``The executive board takes this matter very seriously,'' said  Dick Pound, the IOC vice president heading the Salt Lake inquiry.
``Despite many requests made in the past or evidence to support rumors  that have been floating around, we have never had anything come forward.
``Specific allegations have now been made.
The executive board acted  very quickly to investigate.''
Also on the investigative panel are  IOC vice president Keba Mbaye, executive board members Jacques Rogge  and Thomas Bach, and IOC director general Francois Carrard.
Pound  said the panel would investigate allegations that ``there may or may  not have been payments for the benefit of members of the IOC or their  families connected with the Salt Lake City bid.''
Pound, a Canadian  lawyer, said there was no deadline for completion of the investigation  but said it was possible the inquiry could be wrapped up this weekend.
Pound declined to speculate on what _ if any _ sanctions could be  taken against Salt Lake but did not rule out moving the games elsewhere.
``We're not going to make any conclusions or any speculations as to  what we may decide until we know what the facts are,'' he said.
Moving  the games would be unprecedented and, with just over three years to  go, would be a logistical nightmare.
Most of the facilities needed  for the games in Salt Lake already are built.
John Krimsky, deputy  secretary general of the U.S. Olympic Committee, discounted any possibility  of the games being moved.
``There is no chance at all, absolutely  none in my mind,'' he said.
``I can't be stronger in saying I don't  consider it a possibility whatsoever of the games being withdrawn  from Salt Lake City. ''
Salt Lake organizers have denied that the  bid committee's dlrs 500,000 project was an effort to buy key IOC  members' support in the four years between votes on the 1998 and 2002  Winter Games.
Salt Lake lost the '98 race to Nagano, Japan, in 1991,  when the program was begun.
It won a landslide vote over Sion, Switzerland,  for the 2002 Games in the 1995 balloting.
From 1991 to 1995, the bid  committee _ under the direction of former president Thomas Welch _  spent nearly dlrs 400,000 on scholarships to 13 individuals _ six  of them relatives of IOC members, mostly from Africa.
Olympic rules  prohibit bidding cities from giving IOC members or their relatives  any presents or benefits exceeding a value of dlrs 150.
``I've already  stated I do not regard what was done as a bribe,'' Joklik said Friday.
``I recognize there have been perceptions contrary to that.
I regret  those perceptions, but I don't feel they are justified.''
Joklik was  chairman of the bid committee at the time, the No. 2 official behind  Welch.
Welch resigned last year as president of the organizing committee  after being accused of domestic violence against his wife.
He currently  serves as a SLOC consultant.
``The organizing committee certainly  has people of integrity and ethical standards that would stand any  investigation,'' Joklik said.
``The facts were in the early 1990s  when the bid committee was operating.''
Among those identified as  receiving scholarship funds was Sonia Essomba, the daughter of the  late Rene Essomba of Cameroon.
The elder Essomba, a prominent surgeon,  was the secretary general of the National Olympic Committees of Africa.
Following is the text of the rules on gifts and benefits that were  ``The  finalist cities as well as third parties acting for them or on their  behalf or in their favor, are forbidden to give IOC members _ as well  as their blood relations, relatives by marriage, guests or companions  _ any presents, liberalities or direct or indirect benefits other  than souvenirs ot small presents of a total value which shall in no  case exceed U.S. dlrs 150 per person.''
_ ``Finalist cities and any  third parties acting for them or on their behalf or in their favor  are forbidden to conclude with IOC members, their relations, relatives  by marriage, their guests or companions, agreements, transactions  or any other contracts.''
_ ``In the event of a serious breach of  the present regulations, the IOC executive board may further propose  to the IOC session that it exclude the city having breached the regulation  from the contest for the games.''
A top IOC official on Saturday made explosive allegations of widespread  Olympic corruption, saying agents demand up to dlrs 1 million to deliver  votes in the selection of host cities.
Marc Hodler, a senior member  of the International Olympic Committee executive board, alleged malpractices  in the voting for the 1996 Atlanta Games, 2000 Sydney Olympics and  2002 Salt Lake Games.
Hodler said a group of four agents, including  one IOC member, have been involved in promising votes for payment.
He declined to identify them.
``The four agents try to make a living  out of this,'' he said.
``I missed a chance to be a rich man.
Some  of the agents do the following: they say, `I can offer this or that  number of votes.'
``The price wold be between dlrs 500,000 and dlrs  1 million for a number of votes, a bloc.''
Hodler added that the agents  then charge the city winning the bid ``something like dlrs 3 million  to dlrs 5 millon.''
Hodler, an 80-year-old Swiss lawyer, said there  is one agent who boasts ``that no city has ever won the Olympic Games  without his help.''
``No one can prove that,'' Hodler said.
IOC president  Juan Antonio Samaranch immediately disassociated himself from Hodler's  allegations.
``The only official spokeman for the IOC executive board  is (director general) Francois Carrard,'' Samaranch said.
``All the  other comments are personal comments.
They are not official comments.''
Hodler's allegations, made to a group of reporters, came as the IOC  continued investigations into alleged financial misconduct by the  Salt Lake City group which won the bid for the 2002 games.
Hodler  has described as a ``bribe'' the dlrs 500,000 scholarship fund set  up by Salt Lake which benefited the relatives of six IOC members.
It also came as the former minister in charge of Sydney's 2000 Olympic  bid revealed he was asked to offer bribes in exchange for votes.
Bruce  Baird, the former New South Wales minister, said he refused.
Asked  whether Atlanta's victory in the vote for the 1996 games was clean,  Hodler said, ``Certainly not.'
Asked whether Sydney's election was  clean, he said, ``I would be surprised.
I know what happened but I  don't want to disclose it.''
``I can't imagine that Sydney is different  from the others,'' he said.
``Sydney pretends it is completely clean,  clean, clean.''
Hodler contested the argument by the current Salt  Lake organizing committee that it was not directly involved in the  controversial scholarship program and that the onus was on former  bid chief Thomas Welch.
``Yesterday the lawyer of Salt Lake City said,  `Everything had been done by Tom Welch, who is not there any more.
We know nothing.'
My experience is that this is not true.''
The controversy  including tuition assistance and athlete  training programs _ paid to relatives of IOC members by the Salt Lake  bid committee.
From 1991 to 1995, the committee _ under the direction  of Welch _ spent nearly dlrs 400,000 on scholarships to 13 individuals  _ six of them relatives of IOC members, mostly from Africa.
The current  SLOC president, Frank Joklik, was chairman of the bid committee at  the time.
SLOC vice president Dave Johnson was also a high official  on the bid committee.
A top IOC official on Saturday made explosive allegations of widespread  Olympic corruption, saying agents demand up to dlrs 1 million to deliver  votes in the selection of host cities.
Marc Hodler, a senior member  of the International Olympic Committee executive board, alleged malpractices  in the bid campaigns for the games of 1996, 1998, 2000 and 2002.
Hodler  said a group of four agents, including one IOC member, have been involved  in promising votes for payment.
He declined to identify them.
``The  four agents try to make a living out of this,'' he said.
``I missed  a chance to be a rich man.
Some of the agents do the following: they  say, `I can offer this or that number of votes.'
``The price would  be between dlrs 500,000 and dlrs 1 million for a number of votes,  a bloc.''
Hodler added that the agents then charge the city winning  the bid ``something like dlrs 3 million to dlrs 5 millon.''
Hodler,  an 80-year-old Swiss lawyer, said there is one agent who boasts ``that  no city has ever won the Olympic Games without his help.''
``No one  can prove that,'' Hodler said.
``It could be possible.''
He said he  believed agents had been buying and selling votes for the past 10  years.
``There are four agents we know,'' he said.
``One is an IOC  member.
He promises he will give enough votes so (the biddding city)  can win.''
Asked whether all Olympic votes are tainted, Hodler said,  ``I know of so many times.
There is a good chance it is always the  case.''
IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch immediately disassociated  himself from Hodler's allegations.
``The only official spokeman for  the IOC executive board is (director general) Francois Carrard,''  Samaranch said.
``All the other comments are personal comments.
They  are not official comments.''
Hodler's allegations, made to a group  of reporters, came as the IOC continued investigations into alleged  financial misconduct by the Salt Lake City group which won the bid  for the 2002 games.
Hodler has described as a ``bribe'' the dlrs 500,000  scholarship fund set up by Salt Lake which benefited the relatives  of six IOC members.
It also came as the former minister in charge  of Sydney's 2000 Olympic bid revealed he was asked to offer bribes  in exchange for votes.
Bruce Baird, the former New South Wales minister,  said he refused.
Asked whether Atlanta's victory in the vote for the  1996 games was clean, Hodler said, ``Certainly not.''
John Krimsky,  deputy secretary general of the U.S. Olympic Committee, disputed Hodler's  assertion.
``There is no basis for the charges against Atlanta at  this point,'' Krimsky said.
``All these issues should be put to the  IOC review commission.''
Hodler also leveled allegations against the  head of the Athens bid which lost to Atlanta in the 1996 vote.
Hodler  said he overheard Spyros Metaxa, a wealthy Greek businessman who led  the bid, describing Samaranch and IOC members as ``stupid'' for imposing  restrictions on the bidding process.
``For me there is only one purpose:  winning the games,'' Hodler quoted Metaxa as saying.
``I will do whatever  if it costs me dlrs 100,000, dlrs  10 million or dlrs 100 million.''
Hodler said he didn't know of any  misconduct in Athens' successful bid for the 2004 games.
Asked whether  Sydney's election for the 2000 games was clean, Hodler said, ``I would  be surprised.
I know what happened but I don't want to disclose it.''
``I can't imagine that Sydney is different from the others,'' he said.
``Sydney pretends it is completely clean, clean, clean.''
The committee  which won the 1998 games for Nagano ``certainly had to do things which  are not legitimate,'' Hodler said.
Hodler contested the argument by  the current Salt Lake organizing committee that it was not directly  involved in the controversial scholarship program and that the onus  was on former bid chief Thomas Welch.
``Yesterday the lawyer of Salt  Lake City said, `Everything had been done by Tom Welch, who is not  there any more.
We know nothing.'
My experience is that this is not  true.''
The controversy centers on scholarships _ including tuition  assistance and athlete training programs _ paid to relatives of IOC  members by the Salt Lake bid committee.
From 1991 to 1995, the committee  _ under the direction of Welch _ spent nearly dlrs 400,000 on scholarships  to 13 individuals _ six of them relatives of IOC members, mostly from  Africa.
The current SLOC president, Frank Joklik, was chairman of  the bid committee at the time.
SLOC vice president Dave Johnson was  also a high official on the bid committee.
Hodler said the blame shud  be on those ``who put pressure'' on Salt Lake to offer the scholarship  funds.
``Nobody blames Salt Lake City,'' he said.
``We blame those  voters who can be bought _ not Salt Lake City.
They were a victim.
We should thank them for not paying money _ only scholarships.''
Joklik  on Saturday denied any payment for votes.
``I don't even know what  agents are,'' he said.
The mayor of the Japanese city of Nagano, site of the 1998 Winter  Olympics, denied allegations that city officials bribed members of  the International Olympic Committee to win the right to host the games.
Nagano Mayor Tasuku Tsukada was responding to allegations by Marc  Hodler, the Swiss member of the IOC executive board, of systematic  buying and selling of the Olympic Games.
``I have never heard of such  a thing,'' Tsukada told the Associated Press Sunday.
``As far as Nagano  is concerned, we haven't done anything wrong.
We were selected as  host of the Olympics through our efforts.
We can't believe that Mr.  Hodler has made such a statement,'' he said.
Tsukada was vice chairman  of the Japanese committee to invite the Olympics to Nagano.
Nagano  has been criticized for spending a large amount of money to win the  games.
Sports Nippon, a leading Japanese sports newspaper, said more  than 2 billion yen (dlrs 17 million) of the money Nagano spent to  bring the games there has not been accounted for.
Japan Olympic Committee  has warned cities seeking to host the games in the future that they  should not entertain IOC members excessively, the newspaper said.
Holder's accusation might effect the invitation activities for the  2008 summer Olympics by Osaka, Japan's second largest city, the paper  said.
Osaka is competing with Beijing, China and other cities for  the right to host the games.
Nagano became the first Asian city to  host the Winter Games since Sapporo, Japan played host to the 1972  games.
Eighty-eight IOC members took part in a secret vote in 1991  to decide who would host the 1998 games.
Nagano led in each of the  five rounds, beating out Salt Lake city 46 votes to 42 in the final  ballot.
Swiss IOC executive board member Marc Hodler said Sunday he might  be thrown out of the International Olympic Committee for making allegations  of corruption within the Olympic movement.
Asked whether he might  resign, Hodler said, ``No, I don't resign.
But maybe I will be expelled.
You never know.''
Hodler, who made the allegations Saturday, said  he has since been ``muzzled'' by IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch.
His comments came as the leader of the Salt Lake organizing committee  apologized Sunday for the alleged rules violations during the city's  successful bid for the 2002 Winter Games.
The IOC, meanwhile, said  it was prepared to investigate allegations made by Hodler of bribery  in the selection of Olympic host cities.
Frank Joklik, 4th graf pvs
The senior Olympic official who leveled stunning allegations of corruption  within the IOC said Sunday he had been ``muzzled'' by president Juan  Antonio Samaranch and might be throw out of the organization.
Marc  Hodler, the Swiss member of the IOC executive board, said Samaranch  had ordered him to keep quiet.
He said he was told not to appear at  a scheduled routine news conference.
Asked whether he might resign,  Hodler said, ``No, I don't resign.
But maybe I will be expelled.
You  never know.''
Hodler was, 3rd graf pvs
IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch  on Sunday promised to expel any members if they are found guilty of  accepting bribes.
Samaranch said he was surprised at the allegations  of corruption in the International Olympic Committee made by senior  Swiss member Marc Hodler.
But he said the allegations would be considered  by a special IOC panel looking into alleged rules violations by the  Salt Lake group which won the 2002 Winter Games.
``If it is necessary,  we will expel members if this commission feels these members are guilty,''  Samaranch said at a news conference.
``After we get the recommendations  of the panel, we will take the measures necessary to arrange the problem.''
Samaranch said the IOC was intent on protecting the integrity of the  organization and the Olympics as a whole.
``If we have to clean, we  will clean,'' he said.
``After, the IOC will be even stronger than  before.''
Samaranch said he was taken aback by Hodler's allegations,  which were made to reporters Saturday.
Samaranch said Hodler should  have brought his allegations first to the IOC executive board.
``For  me, I was really surprised.
If he has names and evidence, he must  go to the executive board.''
Hodler said he believed four agents _  including one IOC member _ had been involved in vote-buying over the  past 10 years.
He said he thought 5 to 7 percent of the IOC members  _ currently numbering 115 _ were open to bribery.
Samaranch denied  that he ``muzzled'' Hodler, as the Swiss official claimed earlier  Sunday.
He said he had told all members of the executive board that  only himself and director general Francois Carrad could speak to the  media.
``This is not the first time I do this,'' he said.
Samaranch  expressed his respect and admiration for Hodler and ruled out the  possbility of expelling him from the IOC, an option the Swiss member  had raised.
``Never, never, is anyone thinking to expel Mr. Hodler,''  Samaranch said.
The IOC also ruled out any possibility of stripping  Salt Lake City of the games over alleged rules violations during the  bid.
``No, there is not any kind of possibiity,'' he said.
``We trust  the organizing committee of Salt Lake City.''
The Salt Lake controvery  centers on a scholarship program that provided nearly dlrs 400,000  in tuition and other assistance to 13 individuals _ including six  relatives of IOC members, mostly from Africa.
Samaranch said the IOC  would possibly consider a new procedure to eliminate the tempations  for corruption in the selection of host cities.
Under current rules,  all IOC members have a vote.
Samaranch noted the IOC could adopt the  formula used by sports federations such as FIFA, world soccer's governing  body, which assign their executive boards to select sites.
Saying ``if we have to clean, we will clean,'' Juan Antonio Samaranch  responded on Sunday to allegations of corruption in the Olympic bidding  process by declaring that IOC members who were found to have accepted  bribes from candidate cities could be expelled.
``It is a serious  problem we have before us,'' Samaranch, president of the International  Olympic Committee, said in a hastily arranged news conference at a  tumultuous meeting of the IOC executive board.
Samaranch compared  the current climate to the Soviet boycott of the 1984 Olympics in  Los Angeles and the sprinter Ben Johnson's expulsion from the 1988  Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.
``Those were difficult moments,''  Samaranch said.
``Now we are facing another difficult moment, but  I'm sure we will solve this problem.''
Samaranch expressed surprise  at allegations made by the IOC executive board member Marc Hodler  of Switzerland that agents were offering to sell I.O.C. members' votes  for payments from bidding cities.
Hodler, the second most senior member  of the IOC, said Saturday that he knew of four agents, including one  IOC member, who engaged in such activities.
Hodler said he believed  that 5 to 7 percent of the IOC membership, which currently numbers  115, asked for some sort of compensation for their vote.
He has called  for a new electoral process, in which the executive board or some  other select IOC group would decide which cities become Olympic hosts  instead of the full IOC membership.
Samaranch agreed Sunday that the  time had come to explore change.
``The system we have now is very  complicated, very slow and very expensive,'' he said.
Hodler, the  former head of the International Ski Federation, also claimed that  the Fiat tycoon Gianni Agnelli had given free vans to influence votes  for the Italian resort of Sestriere to hold the 1997 world skiing  championships.
Fiat denied the claims on Saturday, but Sunday Howard  Peterson, a former senior American delegate to the ski federation,  said he had been offered cars by two Fiat executives.
The issue of  vote-buying came to the fore in Lausanne because of the recent disclosure  of scholarship payments made to six relatives of IOC members by Salt  Lake City officials during their successful bid to play host to the  2002 Winter Games.
The Salt Lake Organizing Committee has said the  payments, which amounted to slightly less than $400,000, came from  a privately financed fund that was started in 1991.
And Intermountain  Health Care, Utah's largest health care provider, confirmed Sunday  that it gave free surgical services to at least two people associated  with the IOC in 1994.
A special commission headed by the IOC vice  president Dick Pound was appointed on Friday to investigate the issue  and has met with Salt Lake officials.
Sunday, Frank Joklik, president  of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, issued a public apology to  the ``Olympic family and the citizens of Utah'' for the embarrassment  caused by the scholarships program.
Samaranch Sunday ruled out taking  the Games from Salt Lake City.
He said, ``If necessary we will expel  members if this ad hoc commission thinks these members are guilty.''
Pound said his commission was already ``satisfied Salt Lake City won  the 2002 Games on the merit of the bid.''
He also said that his commission  would expand its inquiry beyond the Salt Lake City bid only if it  was presented with evidence and not simply rumors of corruption in  other bids.
On Saturday, Hodler had suggested the bidding teams from  Atlanta and Nagano, Japan, that won the 1996 Summer Olympics and 1998  Winter Olympics had not run ``clean'' campaigns.
Billy Payne, who  presided over Atlanta's bid, and Makoto Kobayashi, the general secretary  of the Nagano organizing committee, denied those claims.
Asked whether  he regretted his statements Sunday, Hodler said, ``Not at all'' and  later said that ``the cities have been the victims and not the villains.''
Pound said there had been concern in the IOC for some time about agents.
``There always have been lobbyists,'' he said.
``In recent years,  especially with the Olympics coming up every two years, there seems  to be a professional class being created.''
Hodler, when pressed for  further comment this afternoon at Olympic headquarters, initially  covered his mouth with both hands and then said, ``Muzzle imposed  by the president.''
Hodler, 80, is one of only four IOC members with  life membership because he was appointed before age limits were imposed  in 1966.
Asked if he might resign he said, ``I'm not going to resign,  but I might be expelled.''
But the 78-year-old Samaranch said he had  ``great respect'' for Hodler and no intention of asking for his resignation  or pushing for his expulsion.
The Wye River Accord provided for an airport at Gaza, giving Palestinians their own airport with Israel in charge of security.
Gaza International Airport opened on Nov. 24, 1998 with arrival of an Egypt Air flight, but the highlight was landing of the first Palestinian Airlines plane, greeted joyously by a celebrating crowd.
Yasser Arafat was on hand to greet these and later flights.
The airport was expected to provide stimulus to the Palestinian economy as well as facilitating Palestinians' travel abroad.
Despite frequent "differences" between Palestinian and Israeli airport officials, the airport was still functioning at the end of the year.
On Tuesday, Palestinians celebrated the inauguration of the new Gaza International Airport as part of the latest Mideast peace accord.
It will be the first unfettered access route Palestinians have ever had out of the Gaza Strip.
An Egypt Air plane was the first to land, followed by an emotional touchdown of the first Palestinian plane.
Palestinian leader Arafat greeted the crew and seven other planes.
Saturday, a Palestinian flight inaugurated an air route between Gaza and Jordan.
However, tensions developed when Israeli security officials delayed two planes from taking off when Palestinian workers refused to let them check a passenger's identity.
Gaza International Airport, the first Palestinian gateway to the world, opened on November 24 to celebrations, with Arafat greeting arrivals.
The recent Wye Accords, signed between Israel and Palestine in the US, made the long-planned event possible.
The Palestinian airlines began commercial flights on December 5 and looked forward to adding a fourth aircraft.
While the Palestinians are running the airport, Israel approves all flights and monitors security.
This cooperation could only lead to problems and by late December Israel was delaying flights and threatening to close the airport as violence continues elsewhere and the Accords appear to be doomed.
Israeli security officials delayed the take-off of two planes from Gaza International Airport, further straining the Mid-East peace process.
Considered a milestone toward Palestinian autonomy, thousands cheered Gaza's opening in November.
Though some equipment was still not installed, Palestinian planes as well as planes from Egypt and other nations landed on opening day and were met by Arafat.
The airport's opening and the stipulation that Israel would control the airspace and monitor passengers were included in the U.S. brokered Wye River accord.
Since Wye, however, Israel and the Palestinians have accused each other of failing to honor its provisions.
Amid a flurry of last minute preparations, the young Palestinian Authority  prepared Thursday for a milestone on the road to maturity: its very  own airport.
As part of the latest Mideast peace accord, Israeli and  Palestinian officials were to sign a protocol for the airport Friday  and Palestinian negotiators said Gaza International Airport would  open Sunday.
The airport has been nearly completed for months but  Thursday officials there added a few extra touches of yellow paint  and fresh flowers.
It was not clear who would be the first arrivals  at the airport.
Officials said Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat may  travel by car to Egypt in order to fly into the airport.
Others hinted  the first international flight may be reserved for U.S. President  Bill Clinton who is scheduled to visit Gaza in December.
Egypt's Middle  East News Agency said the first plane to land would be carrying Egypt's  health minister and several doctors bearing medical supplies as gifts.
Israel, which will oversee security at the airport, has forbidden  its own citizens from using the airport initially, Israel's Channel  2 TV said.
And all flights, which must be approved by Israel in advance,  would not be allowed to fly over their airspace.
After touring the  airport Thursday, a U.S. official said more work needed to be done  before the airport was ready for Clinton.
``It may be a landing site  for President Clinton, but we're not confirming,'' said the official  who spoke on condition of anonymity.
``When you fly Air Force One,  you're flying several planes and a lot of equipment,'' he said.
The  airport will be the first unfettered access route Palestinians will  have out of the Gaza Strip.
Amid a flurry of last minute preparations, the fledgling Palestinian  Authority prepared Thursday for a milestone on the road to maturity:  its own airport.
As part of the latest Mideast peace accord, Israeli  and Palestinian officials were to sign a protocol for the airport  Friday and Palestinian negotiators said Gaza International Airport  would open Sunday.
The airport has been nearly completed for months.
On Thursday, officials added a few extra touches of yellow paint and  fresh flowers.
It was not clear who would be the first arrivals at  the airport.
Officials said Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat may travel  by car to Egypt in order to fly into the airport.
Others hinted the  first international flight may be reserved for U.S. President Bill  Clinton who is scheduled to visit Gaza in December.
Egypt's Middle  East News Agency said the first plane to land would be carrying Egypt's  health minister and several doctors bearing medical supplies as gifts.
Israel, which will oversee security at the airport, has forbidden  its own citizens from using the airport initially, Israel's Channel  2 TV said.
All flights, which must be approved by Israel in advance,  would not be allowed to fly over Israeli airspace.
After touring the  airport Thursday, a U.S. official said more work was needed to be  done before the airport was ready for Clinton.
``It may be a landing  site for President Clinton, but we're not confirming,'' said the official  who spoke on condition of anonymity.
``When you fly Air Force One,  you're flying several planes and a lot of equipment,'' he said.
The  airport will be the first unfettered access route Palestinians will  have out of the Gaza Strip.
The control tower is still without controls, the check-in counter  has no computers and the runway can't function after dark for lack  of flood lights.
Despite such temporary shortcomings, Gaza International  Airport is set to open Tuesday, aided by a little improvisation and  a lot of patriotic pride.
``It's a glorious feeling of independence,  a feeling that we are open to the world,'' said Fawzi Tabil, a Palestinian  watching while workers painted white lines Monday on the tarmac in  the southern Gaza Strip, close to the Egyptian border.
Palestinian  leader Yasser Arafat planned to be on hand Tuesday morning when a  plane from Cairo carrying Egyptian officials becomes the first arrival.
At half-hour intervals, six more planes are to come in from places  such as Morocco and Spain.
The European Union, which donated dlrs  38 million for equipment and training, is sending its Mideast envoy  on a special plane.
The airport opening had been held up for two years  because of disputes between Israel and the Palestinian Authority over  Israel's role in monitoring passengers and cargo.
In the end, Israel  will have a say over who and what is coming into the Gaza, but the  Israeli monitors will operate discretely, behind one-way mirrors,  as they do now at the Rafah and Allenby Bridge crossings into autonomous  Palestinian areas.
The airport protocol was signed last week, as part  of the Wye River land-for-security deal between Israel and the Palestinians.
Tomer Degani, a spokesman for the Israeli military government in Gaza,  said periodic security closures, which bar Palestinians from entering  Israel, would not effect the operation of the airport.
He said Israel  was inspecting certain gear such as X-ray machines and electro-magnet  equipment for safety but that it wouldn't hold-up the airport from  opening.
The head of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority, Fayez  Zeidan, was not available Monday for comment.
For the time being,  it will still be a bit of an adventure to fly out of Gaza International  or to land there.
Palestinian officials say the equipment for the  control tower, the computers for the check-in counters and the flood  lights are still at the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Nir Yarkoni, a spokesman  for Israel's Civil Aviation Authority, acknowledged delays in some  of the equipment reaching Dahanieh but said he did not know the reasons.
Degani, from the Israeli military government, said some equipment  was being held up by customs.
Portable control, 12th graf pvs
Taking a major step toward statehood, the Palestinians on Tuesday  inaugurated Gaza International Airport, their first gateway to the  world, with cheers, tears and an outpouring of patriotism.
An Egypt  Air plane was the first to land on the desert tarmac in the southern  Gaza Strip at 8:30 a.m. (0630 gmt).
But the emotional highlight was  the touchdown of the first Palestinian Airlines plane, a Fokker 50.
After landing, the pilot and co-pilot raised Palestinian flags high  above their heads as they descended the stairway.
A chant of ``Allahu  Akbar,'' or God is Great, rose from of a crowd of thousands of Palestinians  who had pushed their way onto the airfield to join the celebrations.
``You are a beautiful sight,'' Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat later  told the Palestinian crew in the VIP lounge lavishly decorated with  deep red Oriental carpets and wall mosaics.
Throughout the morning,  Arafat walked from the lounge to the tarmac seven times to greet planes  from Egypt, Morocco, Jordan, Spain, the European Union and two Palestinian  Airlines flights.
``This is a preparation for the declaration of the  Palestinian state,'' Arafat said, smiling broadly and flashing a V  sign.
However, Israel continues to control the airspace and has the  authority to shut down the airfield at any time.
It will monitor arriving  passengers and cargo, and can keep travelers or goods out if it considers  them a danger to Israeli security.
Disputes between Israel and the  Palestinian Authority over security had delayed the airport opening  for more than two years.
In a sign of cooperation, Israeli and Palestinian  security agents approached the Egypt Air jet together Tuesday and  collected the passports of the passengers, including Egyptian Cabinet  ministers and comedian Adel Imam, in white bags.
Throughout the morning,  there were spontaneous celebrations.
As a police marching band played  bagpipes, airport workers, policemen and Cabinet ministers held each  other by their hands and danced in a circle.
Some kissed and embraced  their neighbors, others wiped away tears and several officers waved  their rifles in the air.
In one corner of the airfield, about 300  people gathered around a man and a boy riding mules that moved to  the beat of drums.
The dlrs 75 million airport will provide a boost  to the troubled Palestinian economy, permitting the export of Palestinian  flowers and farm produce that until now were shipped out via Israel,  often with difficulties and delays.
The airfield will also make it  easier for Palestinians to travel abroad, although a majority of Gazans  are probably too poor to be able to afford an air ticket.
Until now,  Palestinians wanting to fly abroad needed permission to enter Israel  and fly out of Ben Gurion International airport near Tel Aviv.
The  other option was to travel by land to Jordan and catch flights there.
Palestinians living in the West Bank still need a permit to cross  Israel into Gaza to get to the airport.
Travel is expected to become  easier once a land route between the West Bank and Gaza opens next  month.
Israel's government does not permit Israelis to use the Palestinian  airport, citing security reasons.
However, Israeli Foreign Minister  Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that this might change in the future.
The  opening of the airport was negotiated during last month's U.S.-sponsored  Mideast summit near Washington.
As part of the accord, Israel also  withdrew troops in the northern West Bank last week and released 250  Palestinian prisoners.
A Palestinian industrial park between Gaza  and Israel is to open next month, while Israeli-Palestinian negotiations  on a Palestinian seaport in Gaza are continuing.
Gaza International,  with the call letters LVGZ, was designed in an Oriental style with  graceful arches and elaborate tiles imported from Morocco.
The airport  has one passenger terminal, a VIP lounge and a three-kilometer (two-mile)-long  runway.
A 1-meter (4-foot)-tall poster of Arafat hangs from the control  tower wall.
Palestine Airlines, with a small fleet that includes one  Boeing 727, will begin direct flights to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia  next week.
In the first weeks, airport operations will have to rely  on some improvisation.
Major pieces of equipment, including the controls  for the control tower, are still held up at the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Tuesday's planes were guided to a safe landing by a portable control  panel installed in a van.
Despite its temporary shortcomings, many  Palestinians consider the airport a big step toward independence.
For those living in the small, overcrowded Gaza Strip, which is ringed  by the Mediterranean on one side and by barbed wire on the other three,  it may help ease the feeling of being trapped.
``Now we will be able  to travel without the Israeli procedures that we usually must go through,''  said Khaled Salmeh, who studies economics at Gaza City University  and plans to fly next month to Saudi Arabia, for a pilgrimage to Mecca.
Taking a major step toward statehood, the Palestinians on Tuesday  inaugurated Gaza International Airport, their first gateway to the  world, with cheers, tears and an outpouring of patriotism.
An Egypt  Air plane was the first to land on the desert tarmac in the southern  Gaza Strip at 8:30 a.m. (0630 gmt).
But the emotional highlight was  the touchdown of the first Palestinian Airlines plane, a Fokker 50.
After landing, the pilot and co-pilot raised Palestinian flags high  above their heads as they descended the stairway.
A chant of ``Allahu  Akbar,'' or God is Great, rose from of a crowd of thousands of Palestinians  who had pushed their way onto the airfield to join the celebrations.
``You are a beautiful sight,'' Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat later  told the Palestinian crew in the VIP lounge lavishly decorated with  deep red Oriental carpets and wall mosaics.
Throughout the morning,  Arafat walked from the lounge to the tarmac seven times to greet planes  from Egypt, Morocco, Jordan, Spain, the European Union and two Palestinian  Airlines flights.
``This is a preparation for the declaration of the  Palestinian state,'' Arafat said, smiling broadly and flashing a V  sign.
However, Israel continues to control the airspace and has the  authority to shut down the airfield at any time.
It will monitor arriving  passengers and cargo, and can keep travelers or goods out if it considers  them a danger to Israeli security.
Disputes between Israel and the  Palestinian Authority over security had delayed the airport opening  for more than two years.
In a sign of cooperation, Israeli and Palestinian  security agents approached the Egypt Air jet together Tuesday and  collected the passports of the passengers, including Egyptian Cabinet  ministers and comedian Adel Imam, in white bags.
Throughout the morning,  there were spontaneous celebrations.
As a police marching band played  bagpipes, airport workers, policemen and Cabinet ministers held each  other by their hands and danced in a circle.
Some kissed and embraced  their neighbors, others wiped away tears and several officers waved  their rifles in the air.
In one corner of the airfield, about 300  people gathered around a man and a boy riding mules that moved to  the beat of drums.
The dlrs 75 million airport will provide a boost  to the troubled Palestinian economy, permitting the export of Palestinian  flowers and farm produce that until now were shipped out via Israel,  often with difficulties and delays.
The airfield will also make it  easier for Palestinians to travel abroad, although a majority of Gazans  are probably too poor to be able to afford an air ticket.
Until now,  Palestinians wanting to fly abroad needed permission to enter Israel  and fly out of Ben Gurion International airport near Tel Aviv.
The  other option was to travel by land to Jordan and catch flights there.
Palestinians living in the West Bank still need a permit to cross  Israel into Gaza to get to the airport.
Travel is expected to become  easier once a land route between the West Bank and Gaza opens next  month.
Israel's government does not permit Israelis to use the Palestinian  airport, citing security reasons.
However, Israeli Foreign Minister  Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that this might change in the future.
The  opening of the airport was negotiated during last month's U.S.-sponsored  Mideast summit near Washington.
As part of the accord, Israel also  withdrew troops in the northern West Bank last week and released 250  Palestinian prisoners.
A Palestinian industrial park between Gaza  and Israel is to open next month, while Israeli-Palestinian negotiations  on a Palestinian seaport in Gaza are continuing.
Gaza International,  with the call letters LVGZ, was designed in an Oriental style with  graceful arches and elaborate tiles imported from Morocco.
The airport  has one passenger terminal, a VIP lounge and a three-kilometer (two-mile)-long  runway.
A 1-meter (4-foot)-tall poster of Arafat hangs from the control  tower wall.
Palestine Airlines, with a small fleet that includes one  Boeing 727, will begin direct flights to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia  next week.
In the first weeks, airport operations will have to rely  on some improvisation.
Major pieces of equipment, including the controls  for the control tower, are still held up at the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Tuesday's planes were guided to a safe landing by a portable control  panel installed in a van.
Despite its temporary shortcomings, many  Palestinians consider the airport a big step toward independence.
For those living in the small, overcrowded Gaza Strip, which is ringed  by the Mediterranean on one side and by barbed wire on the other three,  it may help ease the feeling of being trapped.
``Now we will be able  to travel without the Israeli procedures that we usually must go through,''  said Khaled Salmeh, who studies economics at Gaza City University  and plans to fly next month to Saudi Arabia, for a pilgrimage to Mecca.
The first Palestinian commercial flight landed at Amman's Marka Airport  on Saturday, inaugurating an air route between Jordan and the autonomous  Gaza Strip.
The Falcon F-50 short-haul plane carried 48 passengers,  mostly Palestinian businessmen and students.
The plane will return  later in the day.
Last weekend, the Palestinians inaugurated an airport  in the Mediterranean city of Gaza under the U.S.-brokered Wye River  accord which envisages Israel ceding more lands to the Palestinians  in return for security guarantees.
Jasser Ziyyad, director-general  of the Jordanian Civil Aviation Authority, said Jordan agreed with  the Palestinians earlier in the week on four weekly flights between  two by the Palestinian airline and two for Jordan.
Meanwhile,  Jordanian newspapers quoted unnamed Palestinian aviation officials  as saying one more passenger plane will be added to the Palestinian  fleet of three short-haul aircraft.
It said the addition was necessary  to transport an estimated 3,600 Palestinian Muslims who wish to travel  to Saudi Arabia in early March to perform the annual pilgrimage to  holy shrines in that country.
Israel has threatened to close down the Palestinian-run Gaza airport  over a security violation, an Israeli official said Tuesday, a move  that could further undermine the already fragile peace process.
Palestinian  airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check  the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane Sunday  afternoon, most of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority, according  to Civilian Airport Authority Director Nir Yarkoni.
``The Transportation  Minister asked me to tell the Palestinians that if this continues,  we won't allow the airport operate,'' he told The Associated Press.
Yarkoni said he conveyed the message in a letter sent Monday to chairman  of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority Brig. Gen. Fayez Zeidan.
Zeidan was not immediately available for comment.
Israel retains security  control over flights arriving to Gaza International Airport.
The airport's  opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President  Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians  as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Since then, Israel  has accused the Palestinians of failing to contain anti-Israel violence,  and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel  of reneging on an agreement to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel  activities.
Israel has threatened to close down the Palestinian-run Gaza airport  over a security violation, an Israeli official said Tuesday, a move  that could further undermine the already fragile peace process.
Palestinian  airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check  the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane Sunday  afternoon, most of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority, according  to Civilian Airport Authority Director Nir Yarkoni.
``The Transportation  Minister asked me to tell the Palestinians that if this continues,  we won't allow the airport operate,'' he told The Associated Press.
Yarkoni said he conveyed the message in a letter Monday to chairman  of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority Brig. Gen. Fayez Zeidan.
Zeidan was not immediately available for comment.
Israel retains security  control over flights arriving to Gaza International Airport.
The airport's  opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President  Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians  as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Since then, Israel  has accused the Palestinians of failing to contain anti-Israel violence,  and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel  of reneging on an agreement to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel  activities.
Israeli security officials delayed two planes from taking off from  the Palestinian airport on Wednesday, the latest tensions in a rare  area of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.
A plane bound for Amman,  Jordan was delayed for two hours over an Israeli demand that Palestinian  officials inspect the luggage of a Palestinian passenger, Israel radio  reported.
The plane left with the passenger aboard, but without his  luggage.
Israeli officials also delayed a plane making a stopover  from Saudi Arabia to Cairo, it said.
Israeli airport security officials  were not available for comment.
Abdel Razek Yehia, a Palestinian official  who helped negotiate the airport's opening, confirmed the delays.
He said such differences did not undermine the peace process.
``Every  day we have differences,'' he told The Associated Press.
``We are  all doing all our best to continue the peace process.''
The airport's  opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President  Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians  as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Israel retains security  control over flights arriving at Gaza International Airport, and Palestinian  security officials consult with their Israeli counterparts.
Earlier  this week, Israel threatened to close down the Gaza airport when Palestinian  airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check  the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane, most  of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority.
Palestinian officials  said that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and his entourage were  aboard the plane in question, and that exempted the plane from Israeli  security checks.
Since Wye, Israel has accused the Palestinians of  failing to contain anti-Israel violence, and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel of reneging on an agreement  to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel activities.
Israeli security officials delayed two planes from taking off from  the Palestinian airport on Wednesday, marking the latest tensions  in a rare area of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.
UN sanctions barring air travel force Gadhafi to travel by land to visit Tunisia.
Farrakhan visits Gadhafi and urges the UN to lift sanctions imposed to force the hand over of 2 1988 Pan Am bombing suspects.
UN Secretary General Annan goes to Libya for talks aimed at bringing the suspects to trial.
Annan thinks an arrangement could be made soon.
Libya is serious and ready to find a solution.
Libya agrees to the suspects being tried by Scottish judges in the Netherlands, but wants them jailed in Libya if convicted.
The U.S. and Britain insist on British prison.
Qatar supports Libya's position.
U.S. and British leaders vow to bring the suspects to justice.
On the eve of the 10th anniversary of the 1988 downing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, there is hope that the Libya suspects might soon be brought to trial.
UN General Secretary Kofi Annan has met with Libyan officials and an agreement in principle has been reached on the need for a trial.
Libya seeks assurances that the trial will not be politicized.
Libya has been under a UN flight ban since 1992 in an effort to get them to turn over the suspected bombers for trial by Scottish authorities.
The citizens of Lockerbie marked the anniversary of the bombing with a memorial service.
The UN, US,and Britain continue to press Libya to turn over the two Libyans accused of the Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland.
Libya has agreed to a trial for the two by a Scottish court in the Netherlands, but if found guilty, insists they be jailed in Libya, not Scotland as Britain wants.
UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has visited Libya to urge the turnover of the two.
Libyan leader Moammar Qadhafi feels the pressure of sanctions against his country, but has the support of neighboring Tunisia, Qatar, and US Muslim leader Louis Farrakhan.
People in the US and British Isles attended special services marking the 10th anniversary of the bombing.
Kofi Annan talked with Gadhafi in Libya on bringing the 1988 Pan Am bombing suspects to trial.
He thinks it will happen soon.
Libya agrees to a trial in a 3rd country.
The West demands any sentence be served in Scotland.
Libya insists on a Libyan jail.
Libya claims Gadhafi doesn't have authority to give up the suspects.
The UN bans air travel to and from Libya to force the turning over of the suspects.
Gadhafi traveled by car to visited Tunisia.
Annan had UN clearance to fly to Libya.
Qatar reaffirms its support for Libya.
Louis Farrakhan visits Libya but the US bars him from accepting Libyan money.
Ceremonies were held on the bombing's 10th anniversary.
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi began a surprise visit to neighboring  Tunisia on Monday, his first known trip since injuring his hip in  July.
Col. Gadhafi, whose country is under a U.N. air embargo, arrived  by land for ``a visit of brotherhood and rest'' at the invitation  of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, an official statement said.
Tunisian television did not show the Libyan leader but said he met  with Ben Ali and several government ministers in a desert oasis at  Tozeur, 400 kms (240 miles) south of Tunis, where foreign leaders  are entertained.
Officials, however, did not give the duration or  full itinerary of Gadhafi's visit.
The trip was not announced in advance,  though Ben Ali extended the invitation to Gadhafi when he visited  Libya in August.
Gadhafi was first driven to Gabes, 365 kms (200 miles)  south of Tunis, after crossing the border at Ras Jedir where he was  met by Interior Minister Ali Chaouch, officials said.
It was Gadhafi's  first known trip abroad since he broke a bone near his hip while exercising  and underwent surgery in July, officials have said.
The Libyan leader  last visited Tunisia in January 1996, when he met Ban Ali in the southern  town of Medenine.
Since 1992, Libya has struggled with U.N. Security  Council sanctions that ban direct flights to and from the country.
The move was aimed at forcing Gadhafi to surrender two Libyans wanted  in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am passenger plane over Lockerbie, Scotland,  that killed 270 people.
The council has agreed to suspend the sanctions  once Libya turns the men over for a trial by Scottish judges according  to Scottish law in the Netherlands, under a U.S.-British proposal.
Gadhafi has offered to hand them over but demands any sentences be  served in Dutch or Libyan prisons.
Louis Farrakhan, the leader of a U.S. Muslim group, met with Libyan  leader Moammar Gadhafi on Sunday and congratulated him on his recovery  from a hip injury, state-run Libyan radio reported.
Improved health  will enable Gadhafi to ``carry on his leading role in the service  of Islamic causes in the world,'' Farrakhan was quoted as saying by  the radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp.
Later, state-run  dressed in a brown robe and holding a  cane _ meeting Farrakhan at his ceremonial tent in the Libyan capital,  Tripoli.
The broadcast was monitored in Cairo.
Gadhafi underwent surgery  last July after injuring his hip, reportedly while exercising.
The  visit was Farrakhan's fifth to Libya in the past three years.
The  leader of the U.S.-based Nation of Islam most recently visited in  December 1997.
It was not immediately clear how Farrakhan arrived  in Libya or how long he would stay.
Most visitors arrive by ferry  from Malta or travel overland from Egypt or Tunisia; U.N. sanctions  imposed in 1992 ban air travel to and from the country.
Farrakhan  repeatedly has urged an end to the sanctions, which were imposed to  try to force Gadhafi to surrender two Libyans wanted in the 1988 bombing  of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270 people.
Citing the sanctions and U.S. regulations, the Treasury Department  prohibited Farrakhan from accepting a dlrs 250,000 prize he was awarded  by Gadhafi in September 1996 for human rights work.
The Treasury also  barred his group from accepting Gadhafi's offer of a dlrs 1 billion  gift for Nation of Islam activities.
His Nation of Islam is a black  nationalist group that says it is guided by the Koran.
It is not considered  a true Muslim sect by others who practice Islam.
Farrakhan's message  to America's black community is one of self-reliance, discipline,  spirituality and separatism.
Over the years, he has said that whites  and blacks should live separately, that Jews are ``bloodsuckers''  who have a ``gutter religion,'' and that whites are ``subhuman.''
He accuses news media of taking his comments out of context.
Secretary General Kofi Annan said Wednesday he was extending his North  African tour to include talks with Libyan authorities.
The remark  was made without elaboration at a news conference in Algiers hours  before his arrival in Tunis, his final scheduled stop on a tour aimed  at unblocking plans for a U.N. referendum on the disputed Western  Sahara.
During his visit to Tunis, Annan is to meet with authorities  here to discuss ``major regional and international issues and the  various initiatives aimed at solving unresolved problems,'' according  to the local press.
A Western diplomat, speaking in Algiers on condition  of anonymity, said Annan would travel to Libya on Saturday to meet  with authorities there on the 1988 Pan Am bombing that has led to  U.N. sanctions against Libya.
Annan's trip to Tunisia is scheduled  to end Friday, according to the official program.
The discrepancy  in the timing could not be immediately clarified.
The U.N. Security  Council imposed sanctions in 1992, including a flight ban, to try  to force Libya to hand over two suspects in the bombing that killed  270 people.
The sanctions ban flights to and from the country.
Neighboring  Tunisia provides a land route for those traveling to Libya from the  region.
A week ago, before leaving for North Africa, Annan held out  the possibility of a Libyan trip -- but only to help close a deal  to try the two suspects.
A Libyan legal team has been meeting regularly  with Annan's legal counsel to discuss a U.S.-British proposal to try  the suspects in the Netherlands according to Scottish law and using  Scottish judges.
Annan had said last week that he had hoped for a  breakthrough in the case by the end of November.
He said then that  a trip to Libya ``to bring the issue finally to closure ... has not  been excluded.''
During his Algerian stay,
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan left for Libya  Saturday to hold talks aimed at putting two suspects on trial for  the 1988 Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie.
Annan's one-day, 2nd graf  pvs
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan arrived in  Libya Saturday for talks aimed at bringing to trial two Libyan suspects  in the 1988 Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland.
Annan's one-day  visit to meet with Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi followed reports  in the Libyan media that Gadhafi had no authority to hand over the  suspects.
This position would indicate that Gadhafi is giving himself  enough diplomatic room in the event he decides against giving up the  suspects.
Annan flew aboard a special plane from the Tunisian resort  island of Jerba after receiving a clearance from the U.N. Sanctions  Committee to make the flight.
A Libyan official, speaking on condition  of anonymity, said Annan had arrived in the country but refused to  give details.
Libyan media, controlled by the government, did not  report on the visit in a sign that the subject is of great sensitivity.
It was not known where Annan will meet with Gadhafi but diplomats  said Friday the meeting will likely take place in the northern coastal  town of Sirte, 400 kilometers (250 miles) east of the Libyan capital  of Tripoli.
Libya has been under U.N. sanctions since 1992 for its  refusal to hand over the two alleged intelligence agents, Abdel Basset  Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah.
They are accused by the United  States and Britain of blowing up a Pan Am airliner over the Scottish  village of Lockerbie on Dec. 21, 1988.
All 259 people aboard the Boeing  747 and 11 people on ground were killed.
A Libyan legal team has been  meeting regularly with Annan's legal counsel to discuss a U.S.-British  proposal to try the suspects in the Netherlands according to Scottish  law and using Scottish judges.
Dutch authorities say they have made  arrangements to hold the trial at Camp Zeist, a former air force base  near Utrecht.
On Friday, Annan said the U.N. team ``has done some  good work on the Lockerbie dossier.''
``We will try to resolve some  problems and to find solutions together _ once and for all,'' Annan  said.
But in an apparent bid to distance the Libyan leader from a  decision on the suspects, Libya's official news agency JANA said Friday  that Gadhafi ``is neither president nor prime minister nor foreign  minister, but only the leader of the Libyan revolution.''
``As such,  Col. Gadhafi is not empowered to sign an agreement,'' the report said.
JANA suggested that a decision on handing over the suspects would  have to be approved by some 500 grassroots national committees before  being decided by the Parliament.
The Netherlands was chosen as a venue  for the trial after Libya itself proposed the trial be held in a third  country.
Since then a new hurdle has cropped up over the imprisonment  of the suspects, if convicted.
Libya wants them jailed in the Netherlands  or Libya, but the United States and Britain say they should be imprisoned  in Scotland and refuse to negotiate the issue.
The U.N. sanctions  on Libya do not cover oil exports, Libya's economic lifeblood.
They  ban air travel to and from the country and arms sales.
Some Libyan  assets abroad have also been frozen.
But many African countries have  defied the air ban and their leaders have flown in and out of Libya.
After meeting Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in a desert tent, U.N.  Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he thinks an arrangement for bringing  two suspects to trial in the bombing of a Pan Am airliner could be  secured in the ``not too distant future.''
Annan's comments came Saturday  after he and Gadhafi failed to agree on handing over Abdel Basset  Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, who are suspected in the  1988 bombing that killed 270 people.
On Sunday, state-run Libyan Radio  quoted an unnamed official in the Foreign Liaison Secretariat, which  is the equivalent of a foreign ministry, as saying that ``a solution  to this crisis is within reach.''
He credited Annan's talks with Omar  al-Muntasser, Libya's foreign minister, who met with Annan in Sirte  before Annan went on to talks with Gadhafi.
Sirte is 400 kilometers  (250 miles) east of the Libyan capital Tripoli.
The official spoke  of ``fruitful talks'' but gave no details.
The broadcast was monitored  by the British Broadcasting Corp.
Also Sunday, British Foreign Secretary  Robin Cook said in an interview with the BBC that he had spoken with  Annan on Sunday and was ``very encouraged by what he tells me.''
He  added: ``I think you could sum up our mood as one of qualified optimism.''
Britain would like to see the two suspects in custody by Dec. 21,  the 10th anniversary of the Pan Am bombing.
But Cook said Britain  will not budge on the demand by Washington and London that the suspects  serve any sentence in a Scottish jail.
Libya has asked that any prison  terms be served in the Netherlands or Libya.
Annan spoke to reporters  in Tripoli after the meeting with Gadhafi and later when he arrived  back at this Tunisian island, where he had begun the day of diplomacy  that lasted nearly 15 hours.
The 60-year-old Annan is trying to get  Libya to go along with a U.S.-British plan to try the two suspects  before a panel of Scottish judges in the Netherlands for the 1988  bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland.
``The talks have been fruitful and  positive,'' Annan said in Tripoli.
``Libya has confirmed its seriousness  and readiness to find a solution to the Lockerbie problem.
``Libya  has also agreed to a trial in a third country and believes that it  ought to be possible to find answers to all other outstanding issues,''  he said.
``So I hope that in the not too distant future we will be  able to give the families good news,'' he added, referring to the  relatives of victims who have lobbied extensively for a trial.
Annan  left Jerba on Sunday for the United Arab Emirates, where he will attend  a summit of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a federation of six Arab  Gulf states.
In Washington, James Foley, a State Department spokesman,  said the United States is awaiting a briefing from Annan but is ``disappointed''  that Libya has not complied with U.N. Security Council resolutions.
``Compliance means turnover of the two suspects for trial,'' Foley  said.
``It's been almost 10 years since the Pan Am 103 tragedy, this  has gone on for far too long.''
The meeting with Gadhafi took place  after Libya's official news agency, JANA, reported that Annan might  not be able to meet with the Libyan leader because Gadhafi was ``in  the desert.''
U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said Annan was taken on  an hour's trip into the desert in a four-wheel drive vehicle to meet  with Gadhafi in a tent with a roaring fire outside.
Earlier, Libyan  media suggested that Gadhafi had no authority to hand over the suspects  an indication he was giving himself room in case he decides against  giving up the two men wanted by the United States and Britain.
JANA  indicated a decision on handing over the two suspects would have to  be approved by some 500 grassroots national committees before being  considered by the Parliament.
Libyan radio reported that the Parliament  had been called to meet Tuesday in Sirte but did not say whether the  Lockerbie issue would be discussed.
Annan flew into Libya aboard a  special plane from Jerba after receiving clearance from the U.N. Sanctions  Committee.
Libya has been under U.N. sanctions since 1992 for its  refusal to hand over the two suspects.
The U.N. sanctions ban air  travel in and out of the country but do not cover oil exports, Libya's  economic lifeblood.
After meeting Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in a desert tent, U.N.  Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he thinks an arrangement for bringing  two suspects to trial in the bombing of a Pan Am airliner could be  secured in the ``not too distant future.''
Annan's comments came Saturday  after he and Gadhafi failed to agree on handing over Abdel Basset  Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, who are suspected in the  1988 bombing that killed 270 people.
Annan spoke to reporters in the  Libyan capital of Tripoli after the meeting and again later when he  arrived back at this Tunisian island, where he had begun his 15-hour  stretch of diplomacy.
The 60-year-old Annan is trying to get Libya  to go along with a U.S.-British plan to try the two suspects before  a panel of Scottish judges in the Netherlands for the Dec. 21, 1988,  bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland.
``The talks have been fruitful and  positive,'' Annan said in Tripoli.
``Libya has confirmed its seriousness  and readiness to find a solution to the Lockerbie problem.
``Libya  has also agreed to a trial in a third country and believes that it  ought to be possible to find answers to all other outstanding issues,''  he said.
``So I hope that in the not too distant future we will be  able to give the families good news,'' he added, referring to the  relatives of victims who have lobbied extensively for a trial.
On  Sunday, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said in an interview  with the British Broadcasting Corp. that ``I think you could sum up  our mood as one of qualified optimism.''
He said he spoke with Annan  on Sunday and was ``very encouraged by what he tells me.''
But Cook  said Britain will not budge on the demand by Washington and London  that the suspects serve any sentence in a Scottish jail.
Annan said  he was tired after arriving back in Jerba.
He left Sunday for a summit  of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a federation of six Gulf states,  which begins Monday in the United Arab Emirates.
In Washington, James  Foley, a State Department spokesman, said the United States is awaiting  a briefing from Annan but is ``disappointed'' that Libya has not complied  with U.N. Security Council resolutions.
``Compliance means turnover  of the two suspects for trial,'' Foley said.
``It's been almost 10  years since the Pan Am 103 tragedy, this has gone on for far too long.''
State-run Libyan Radio quoted an unnamed official in the Foreign Liaison  Secretariat, which is the equivalent of a foreign ministry, as saying  Sunday that ``a solution to this crisis is within reach.''
Annan's  meeting with Gadhafi took place after Libya's official news agency,  JANA, initially reported that Annan might not be able to meet with  the Libyan leader because Gadhafi was ``in the desert.''
U.N. spokesman  Fred Eckhard said Annan was taken on an hour's trip into the Libyan  desert in a four-wheel drive vehicle to meet with Gadhadi in a tent  with a roaring fire outside.
Earlier, Libyan media suggested that  an indication  he was giving himself room in case he decides against giving up the  two men wanted by the United States and Britain.
JANA indicated a  decision on handing over the two suspects would have to be approved  by some 500 grassroots national committees before being considered  by the Parliament.
Libyan radio reported that the Parliament had been  called to meet Tuesday in Sirte, 250 miles (400 kilometers) east of  Tripoli, but did not say whether the Lockerbie issue would be discussed.
Annan flew into Libya aboard a special plane from Jerba after receiving  clearance from the U.N. Sanctions Committee.
Libya has been under  U.N. sanctions since 1992 for its refusal to hand over the two suspects.
The U.N. sanctions ban air travel in and out of the country but do  not cover oil exports, Libya's economic lifeblood.
The Netherlands  was chosen as a venue after Libya proposed a trial in a neutral country.
But a disagreement has arisen because Libya wants the suspects jailed  in the Netherlands or Libya if convicted, but the United States and  Britain insist they be imprisoned in Scotland.
Libya's justice minister on Wednesday said the two suspects in the  1988 bombing of a Pan Am jetliner should not become victims of Western  politics when they go on trial.
``We want to be sure that the only  aim of the trial is to show the truth ... and that it is held without  a political or security background,'' Justice Minister Mohammed Belgasim  al-Zuwiy said.
He was addressing the General People's Congress, or  Parliament, which opened a debate that will decide the fate of the  two men who are wanted in connection with the Dec. 21, 1988 bombing.
A total of 270 people on board and on ground were killed when the  jetliner blew up over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.
Libya has accepted  in principle to a trial before a panel of Scottish judges in the Netherlands.
But the hand over of the suspects has been held up over Libya's demand  for a guarantee that the two men, if convicted, will be jailed in  Libya.
The United States and Britain insist that the two suspects  serve their prison term in Britain.
The Parliament meeting, expected  to last five days, is being held in the northern coastal town of Sirte  and was broadcast live on national television.
Libyan media have suggested  that Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi does not have the authority to  hand over the suspects and that any decision would have to be approved  by the Congress.
``Our argument is that since this is an exceptional  trial, therefore this exception should include serving the jail term  in Libya, maybe under U.N. supervision,'' al-Zuwiy said.
He said Libya  is seeking the guarantees from the West to ensure that the trial will  be ``honest, just .
.
and without loopholes that (would) leave our  citizens in illegal, unjust and inappropriate circumstances.''
Opening  the debate, Foreign Minister Omar al-Muntasser gave the background  to the controversy since the Security Council imposed sanctions on  Libya in 1992 to force it to hand over the Lockerbie suspects for  trial.
The sanctions include a ban on air travel from and to Libya,  restricting diplomatic personnel and banning the purchase of oil equipment.
Al-Zuwiy, the justice minister, said the two suspects will have the  right to an appeal in the same court if it finds them guilty.
On Saturday,  U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan met with Gadhafi to iron out the  details.
No agreement was reached but Annan said Libya is expected  to reach a decision soon.
Qatar's foreign minister, Sheik Hamad bin Jassem bin Jaber Al Thani,  met Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in the desert on Saturday, Libya's  official television reported.
The television, monitored in Cairo,  did not say where the meeting took place, but it showed Gadhafi, dressed  in a muddy brown gown and matching cap, receiving the Qatari minister  in a tent.
Al Thani handed Gadhafi a letter that reaffirmed Qatar's  support for Libya ``in its just position toward the so-called Lockerbie  case,'' the television said, referring to Libya's objections to the  U.N. sanctions imposed in 1992 to press it to hand over two Libyans  wanted for the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am airliner over the Scottish  town of Lockerbie that left 270 people dead.
The television gave no  other details about the visit.
With the mournful lament of bagpipes and prayers of healing, the people  of Lockerbie paid tribute to the 270 people killed when a bomb brought  Pan Am Flight 103 crashing down on this tiny town 10 years ago Monday.
The hundreds who packed Dryfesdale Parish Church heard messages from  British Prime Minister Tony Blair and U.S. President Bill Clinton,  who renewed their vows to punish the culprits who hid the bomb in  a suitcase on Dec. 21, 1988.
But they also heard quiet sobs that echoed  throughout the century-old church as a few moments of silence were  observed before the bagpiper blew her lament.
``In the lives that  were lost, some very young, there was meaning and achievement,'' the  Rev. David Almond told the gathering of about 600 people, which included  60 family members of those who perished.
``Our task in commemoration  is to continue that meaning and to build on that achievement.''
The  congregation heard the children of the local elementary school sing  a tribute, ``Let There be Love,'' as well as a message from the queen.
``We pray on this anniversary that the families will find solace together  in quiet remembrance across the world,'' the queen's message said.
In a separate service in London's Westminster Abbey, attended by Blair,  Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and Prince Andrew, the second son of  Queen Elizabeth II, hundreds listened as one-by-one the names of the  259 passengers and 11 of Lockerbie's own residents were read out as  a candle was lit for each.
Simultaneous services were also held at  Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia and in Syracuse, New York,  which lost 35 college students in the crash.
Each service began at  7:03 p.m. (1903 GMT), the moment when the plane disappeared from the  radar screen above Scotland.
``This was a very positive, emotional  day,'' Bert Ammerman of River Vale, New Jersey, whose brother Thomas  died in the crash, said after the service.
He said the people of Lockerbie  have ``proven over the past 10 years that good intentions can overcome  evil.''
Earlier in the day, Prince Philip, the queen's husband, laid  a wreath in Lockerbie's cemetery, where the town's Roman Catholic  parish priest at the time of the crash spoke to about 200 victims'  relatives and townspeople about the ``ticking bomb'' of justice.
``Ten  years ago, for you and for us, a bomb was ticking,'' the Rev. Pat  Keegans told the crowd, many of them visibly moved.
``Be assured of  the irresistible bomb of justice  and truth.
``Be certain that our wreath-laying today is not a symbolic  gesture.
It is a declaration that we will not rest until we have justice  and truth, until all who are responsible for your deaths are held  accountable,'' he said.
Two Libyan suspects have been indicted in  connection with the bombing, but have not yet been turned over for  trial.
Last week, Libya's Parliament gave its conditional approval  for a trial in the Netherlands by a Scottish court, but said some  obstacles remained.
The plane had just reached its cruising altitude  of 31,000 feet (9,400 kms), 42 minutes after taking off from London's  Heathrow Airport for New York, when it exploded in the night sky.
The aircraft was felled by a small amount of high explosives smuggled  on in a portable radio hidden inside a suitcase, which made its way  as checked baggage from Malta to Frankfurt, Germany, and then to London.
PKK leader Ocalan was arrested on arrival at the Rome airport.
He asked for asylum.
Turkey pressured Italy to extradite Ocalan, whom they consider a terrorist.
Kurds in Europe flocked to Rome to show their support.
About 1,500 staged a hunger strike outside the hospital where he was held.
Italy began a border crackdown to stop Kurds flocking to Rome.
Greek media and officials oppose extradition.
Romanian Kurds staged a 1-day business shutdown to protest his arrest.
In a Turkish prison, an Italian prisoner was taken hostage.
The Turkish president needed extra security for a trip to Austria.
This is Italy's Prime Minister D'Alema's first foreign policy test.
The leader of the Kurdish rebel group fighting for autonomy in southeast Turkey, Abdullah Ocalan, was arrested at Rome's international airport on Thursday.
The arrest set off a wave of protests throughout Europe as Kurdish groups in Italy, Romania, Germany, Austria rallied in support of Ocalan.
The support ranged from a one-day shutdown of business in Romania to a hunger strike in Rome.
In Turkey, Kurdish inmates took an Italian prisoner hostage in an effort to get Italy to extradite Ocalan.
Italy's leftist Prime Minister was being pressured to grant Ocalan asylum.
An international incident resulted after the arrest in Rome of Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).
An armed struggle has ensued since the PKK was formed in 1978, and nearly 37,000 died.
Turkey wants Ocalan extradited but Italy is reluctant since Turkey still has the death penalty.
Kurds from all over Europe have come to Rome, or at least tried to, to protest Ocalan's detention and to urge asylum for him.
Turkey has said countries bordering eastern Turkey have harbored Kurdish rebels and Greece has voiced support for the Kurds.
Prisoners in Turkey held an Italian inmate hostage in hope of forcing Italy to extradite Ocalan.
Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdish Workers Party, was detained in the Rome airport and is asking for political asylum.
Ocalan has led the Kurdish insurgents in southeastern Turkey since 1978.
Turkey, where he faces the death penalty, immediately requested his extradition and has heavily pressured Italy.
Germany also wants him.
Greeks and leftist Italians oppose his extradition.
Others in Europe have joined with Kurds in staging demonstrations and hunger strikes.
Prisoners in Turkey are holding an Italian in hopes of a swap.
The Kurds join Cyprus as contentious issues as the Turkish President goes to Vienna to discuss European Union membership.
A Kurdish rebel group fighting for autonomy in Turkey's southeast  faces an uncertain future following the detention in Rome of its founder  and leader.
Italian authorities captured Abdullah Ocalan at Rome's  international airport Thursday.
Turkey has asked for his extradition  and Ocalan has asked for political asylum.
Some believe that without  Ocalan, who ruled some 10,000 loyal rebels with an iron fist, his  Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, will be left in disarray.
``If the  head is dethroned, the rebellion gets a mortal blow,'' said Cengiz  Candar who has been following the Kurdish insurgency for daily Sabah.
But Ocalan has been absent from the battlefield for at least a month,  and others contend that the PKK is capable of operating without him.
``Let us not fall into false expectations that this will be the end  of the PKK.
The PKK has already been acting like a headless monster  for too long,'' said Ilnur Cevik of the English-language Turkish Daily  News.
Turkish newspapers have carried frequent reports of power struggles  within the PKK and said that Ocalan's grip on the PKK was beginning  to waver.
Better known as Apo, Ocalan founded the Kurdistan Workers  Party, PKK, in 1978.
The movement turned to armed struggle in 1984,  mainly focusing on guerrilla-style warfare in the southeast, but also  carrying out bomb attacks on civilians in western Turkey.
Close to  37,000 people died in the conflict.
His presence in Europe could also  be a blessing in disguise for the group, forcing the PKK to transform  itself from a rebel army into a political movement.
Ocalan seemed  to be moving in this direction before his detention.
While living  in Damacus, he increased his meetings with European deputies.
This  may be the PKK's best option.
The Turkish military claims it has made  important battlefield gains and captured the PKK's second-in-command  this year.
The rebels also seem to have lost the support of Syria,  which appears to have forced Ocalan to leave after Turkey threatened  to attack it.
Two Iraqi Kurdish groups controlling Turkey's border  with Iraq have also grown lukewarm.
The PKK has used their bases in  Syria and Iraq to wage cross-border operations.
``The PKK had two  options.
Either they choose to fight until they get control of the  area, regardless of what image they project abroad, or they try to  take on a political image.
I believe (Ocalan) wanted to leave the  Middle East so he could become a political figure,'' said Hikmet Tavak,  managing director of the London-based Kurdish television, MED-TV.
In Rome, spokesmen for the PKK said Ocalan had carefully selected  Italy because he felt there was sympathy there for his cause.
They  also said Italian authorities were warned that Ocalan would be arriving.
There is a fair amount of sympathy for the Kurds in Europe, and if  the movement gains political momentum, Turkey could come under more  pressure from its western allies to grant the Kurds minority rights.
There are an estimated 8 to 15 million Kurds in Turkey.
They are not  recognized as an official minority and barred from using Kurdish in  education or broadcasting.
Kurdish politicians have been jailed and  groups banned on charges of supporting the PKK.
Turkey stepped up the pressure on Italy for the extradition of captured  Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, warning Sunday that granting  him asylum would amount to ``opening doors to terrorism.''
In Rome,  1,500 Kurds massed for a second day of demonstrations outside the  military hospital where Ocalan is believed to be held.
Kurds arrived  from Germany and France to show solidarity with the rebel leader and  a Kurdish group stopped at Rome's airport launched a hunger strike.
If Italy sends the Kurd leader back to Turkey, ``he'll be tortured  for certain,'' said Dino Frisullo, an Italian supporter among the  singing, chanting Kurds outside the military hospital.
``And very  possibly he'll be killed.''
Ocalan was arrested at the Rome airport  on Thursday as soon as he stepped off a plane from Moscow, where he  had sought asylum after recently fleeing his hideout in Syria.
He  leads the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting  for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984.
The conflict  has killed nearly 37,000 people.
Turkey considers Ocalan a terrorist  and its most-wanted criminal.
``If Western European nations open their  arms (to the rebels) they will be taking on this great terrorism problem,''  Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit told reporters in Ankara.
``If Italy  continues to show the tolerance it showed yesterday it will be opening  its doors to terrorism,'' Ecevit added, referring to Italy's handling  of brawls that broke out among the Kurdish demonstrators in Rome on  Saturday.
The protests were peaceful Sunday.
Ocalan faces the death  penalty in Turkey, a fact that has heightened opposition in Italy  to his extradition.
Although there have been no executions in Turkey  since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to extradite anyone if  there were even a risk of capital punishment.
Foreign Minister Ismail  Cem left for Rome on Sunday to attend a meeting of European defense  and foreign ministers.
Before leaving, he criticized an Italian Justice  Ministry official, who reportedly said Turkey's extradition request  would be refused.
``To announce the results of an extradition trial  that has not yet even begun does not go hand in hand with justice,''  Cem told reporters.
He said he would tell Italian Foreign Minister  Lamberto Dini ``that we expect a serious and fair approach.''
Ocalan,  a political science dropout from Ankara University, founded the Marxist-inspired  PKK in 1978.
He turned the group toward armed struggle in 1984, finding  wide support among poor Kurds in the underdeveloped southeast.
The  Turkish army claims to have all but wiped out the PKK within Turkey  but the rebels have havens in Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting  continues.
Turkey stepped up pressure on Italy for the extradition of captured  Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, saying Sunday that granting  him asylum would amount to ``opening doors to terrorism.''
Kurds in  Italy, Germany, Austria and Romania launched protests and hunger strikes  in fervent shows of solidarity with the rebel leader.
Kurds came to  Rome by bus and car from across Western Europe for a 1,500-strong  protest outside the military hospital where Ocalan is believed held  under tight security.
If Italy sends Ocalan back to Turkey, ``he'll  be tortured for certain,'' said Dino Frisullo, an Italian supporter  among the singing, chanting Kurds outside the military hospital.
``And  very possibly he'll be killed.''
Ocalan was arrested Thursday at the  Rome airport as soon as he stepped off a plane from Moscow, where  he had sought asylum after fleeing his hideout in Syria.
He leads  the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting  for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984.
The conflict  has killed nearly 37,000 people.
To Turkey, Ocalan is the nation's  most-wanted criminal.
``If Western European nations open their arms  (to the rebels) they will be taking on this great terrorism problem,''  Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit told reporters in Ankara.
``If Italy  continues to show the tolerance it showed yesterday, it will be opening  its doors to terrorism,'' Ecevit added, referring to Italy's handling  of brawls that broke out during the first day of protests Saturday  outside the Rome military hospital.
The protest in Rome was peaceful  Sunday.
Elsewhere in Europe, dozens of Kurds protested in Bucharest  until chased away by police; 1,000 Kurds rallied in Bonn, some waving  pictures of the Kurd leader; and 100 Kurds in Vienna set up tents  outside Parliament and declared a hunger strike.
In Turkey, four Kurdish  prison inmates were in critical condition after setting themselves  on fire to protest Ocalan's arrest, the independent Human Rights Association  said.
Ocalan faces the death penalty in Turkey, a fact that has heightened  opposition in Italy to his extradition.
Although there have been no  executions in Turkey since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to  extradite anyone if there were even a risk of capital punishment.
Foreign Minister Ismail Cem left for Rome on Sunday to attend a meeting  of European defense and foreign ministers, saying he would tell Italian  Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini that ``we expect a serious and fair  approach.''
He criticized an Italian Justice Ministry official, who  reportedly said Italy would deny Turkey's extradition request.
``To  announce the results of an extradition trial that has not yet even  begun does not go hand in hand with justice,'' Cem told reporters  before departing.
Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin indicated  to reporters in Rome that Italian companies could be shut out of Turkey's  billions of dollars of defense contracts if it fails to turn over  the Kurd.
In Italy, Dini told reporters in the city of Trento that  the government would decide Ocalan's request for asylum in a ``clear  and responsible manner.''
It was up for the courts to decide Turkey's  extradition request, as well as an expected one from Germany, he said.
In Istanbul, Turkish inmates at a prison took an Italian prisoner  hostage to increase pressure for Ocalan's extradition.
Metris prison  officials said the jail director was talking to the inmate captors.
Ocalan founded the Marxist-inspired PKK in 1978.
He turned the group  toward armed struggle in 1984, finding wide support among poor Kurds  in the underdeveloped southeast.
The Turkish army claims to have all  but wiped out the PKK within Turkey but the rebels have havens in  Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting continues.
Greek media and officials leveled strong opposition Sunday to the  possible extradition of Abdullah Ocalan, the arrested Kurdish guerrilla  leader, to Greece's traditional rival Turkey.
Ocalan, whose Kurdistan  Workers Party has waged a 14-year war with Turkey for autonomy in  southeastern Turkey, is in prison custody in Rome where his arrest  was announced Friday.
``We do not give advise to other countries,''  said parliament speaker Apostolos Kaklamanis.
``Europe has a tradition  of civilization and human rights and I think as a rule it abides by  that tradition.''
Greece has not officially responded to Ocalan's  arrest, which was welcomed by the United States.
But Greek government  officials have stressed support for Kurdish self-determination.
``We  have repeatedly brought attention to the problems created by the blatant  violation of human rights in southeast Turkey,'' government spokesman  Dimitris Reppas said late Saturday.
In the past, Greece has accused  Ankara of waging a campaign of ``genocide'' against its Kurdish population.
Ankara counters that Greece is harboring PKK ``terrorists.''
Both  sides angrily deny the charges.
Thousands of Kurdish refugees from  northern Iraq and Turkey have sought refuge in Greece.
A group of  more than 100 Kurds began a three-day fast in a downtown Athens square  Saturday in support of Ocalan.
Within hours of the PKK leader's arrest,  Turkey requested his extradition to face a number of terrorism-related  charges, which could carry the death penalty.
``Italy knows what the  fate of the Kurdish rebel will be if he falls into the hands of the  Turkish military regime,'' said an editorial Saturday in the Greek  daily Eleftherotypia.
``Ocalan has requested political asylum in Italy  as head of the Kurdish liberation movement and should be allowed to  remain in a democratic country.
He must not be extradited to Turkey.''
Greece's Communist party and a small leftist opposition party called  on the government to exercise its influence on Italy to keep Ocalan  there.
The move was also supported by a number of parliamentary deputies  from the governing Socialist party.
Earlier this month, a bloc of  109 lawmakers in the 300-member parliament issued an invitation for  Ocalan to visit Greece.
About 1,500 Kurds who spent the night outside a military hospital  where Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan is believed held continued  their hunger strike Monday to protest his detention.
Kurds from across  Western Europe have been streaming into Rome to show their support  for Ocalan (pronounced Oh-jah-lan), who was arrested Thursday when  he stepped off a plane from Moscow.
He had been seeking political  asylum in Russia after fleeing his hideout in Syria.
He has, 3rd graf
Turkish authorities negotiated with an imprisoned mob leader for a  second day Monday to secure the release of an Italian inmate held  hostage to pressure Italy into extraditing a Kurdish rebel leader,  a prosecutor said.
The Italian, Mario Calascibetta, was taken hostage  Sunday by a group of inmates affiliated with mob leader Yasar Oz,  to push for the return to Turkey of rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan,  Turkey's most-wanted man.
Ocalan is currently being held in Rome.
Calascibetta, imprisoned in Istanbul's Metris jail since his detention  in August, was due to be handed over to Swiss police Monday.
He is  wanted for questioning in Switzerland in connection with a killing.
Turkey's Anatolia news agency said Oz was determined not to free his  hostage until Italy agreed to Turkey's demand to send back Ocalan  who is Turkey's most wanted man.
``He is not in any life threatening  danger.
We are not alarmed for his safety,'' said prosecutor Celil  Demircioglu.
``The negotiations are continuing, we believe he will  be freed very soon.''
Demircioglu said Calascibetta's extradition  would now be delayed by a few days.
He denied Turkish press reports  that the Italian was being held at gun point.
Oz is currently on trial  on drugs-related charges.
The mob has often supported right-wing parties  and ultranationalist causes.
At a time when the state is under pressure  to crack down on the mob, it seemed convenient for Oz to show he was  backing the government's cause.
INNSBRUCK, Austria (AP) -- Italian authorities have turned back at  least 136 people along the Austro-Italian border during an immigration  crackdown prompted by the arrest of Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan,  Austrian officials said Monday.
Most of those sent back since the  crackdown began Saturday were refused entry into Italy because they  had no visas or residence permits, the Austrians said.
On Monday alone,  about 70 people were refused entry at the Brenner Pass crossing point.
They included Pakistanis, Indians, Yugoslavs and Chinese as well as  Kurds, the Austrians said.
The border crackdown appeared designed  to prevent large numbers of Kurds living in Western Europe from flocking  to Rome for protests in connection with Ocalan's arrest.
Turkey has  asked for Ocalan's extradition.
Austrian authorities said many of  those turned back had come from Germany.
A Red Cross station was set  up at the border to assist those turned away to return to Germany  if their residence permits were in order.
Those without proper papers  were detained by Austrian immigration.
Thousands of Kurds living in Romania closed down restaurants, shops  and companies to protest the arrest of leader Abdullah Ocalan by Italian  authorities, a newspaper reported Tuesday.
Kurdish business leaders  said the one-day shutdown Monday cost their 1,000 businesses some  dlrs 700,000, daily Evenimentul Zilei reported.
There are some 4,000  Kurds living in Romania.
Kurdish students cut classes and workers  didn't go to work.
Some 41 Kurds declared a hunger strike Monday to  protest Ocalan's detention.
The protesters have refused any medical  assistance from Romanian authorities, relying on the services of two  Kurdish doctors, the paper reported.
``We are not terrorists, as we  are considered by the Turkish state and its friends,'' said Aihan  Dogan, a Kurdish leader.
The detention in Italy of Kurdish rebel leader  Ocalan prompted widespread protests by Kurds throughout Europe.
Turkey  has asked for Ocalan to be returned to Turkey.
About 1,000 policemen were assigned to protect Turkish President Suleyman  Demirel, who arrived Tuesday on a three-day official visit.
President  Thomas Klestil's invitation for the visit was issued to take place  during Austria's European Union presidency.
Austrian government officials  reportedly will try to open up a ``longer-term perspective'' for Turkey's  EU membership.
A related topic certain to come up is Cyprus, among  six countries with whom the European Union started formal membership  talks on Nov. 10.
In a rare joint statement, the Netherlands, Germany  and France said the inability of Greek and Turkish Cypriots to reconcile  their differences weighed heavily on their island's membership chances.
They spoke of ``fundamental problems'' in the Cyprus negotiating process,  adding ``a political solution is urgently required.''
Austrian police  took special measures to ensure the safety of the Turkish visitor.
``The political situation requires comprehensive security measures,''  the Austria Press Agency quoted Walter Zehetmayr, a senior police  officer, as saying.
The extra effort was prompted by the arrest last  week in Rome of Abdullah Ocalan, the chief of the Turkish Workers  Party PKK, Zehetmayr said.
He hinted that he expects large protests  of Turkish groups in Vienna.
Demirel, who was accompanied by five  Cabinet members and a large trade delegation, is the first head of  state of the Turkish Republic to visit Austria, APA said.
Following  his talks with Klestil and a luncheon in the president's residence,  Demirel was scheduled to meet Parliament president Heinz Fischer and  other senior officials.
He was also to deliver a speech to the Foreign  Policy Society later Tuesday.
Facing his first real foreign policy test, Prime Minister Massimo  D'Alema must decide what to do with a prominent Kurdish rebel leader  who was arrested at the Rome airport on Thursday.
Turkey wants Italy  to extradite the rebel, Abdullah Ocalan, leader of the Kurdistan Workers'  Party, which is seeking Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey.
He  is viewed in Turkey as a terrorist.
Germany also has a warrant out  for his arrest on homicide charges.
But D'Alema, a former Communist  who was appointed prime minister last month, is under pressure from  leftists in his coalition to offer Ocalan political asylum.
In a news  conference Monday, D'Alema recognized the extent of the problem.
``The  last thing we wanted was an awkward and complicated situation like  this one,'' he said.
He noted that Italian law prohibits extradition  of suspects to countries that have the death penalty.
Turkey has capital  punishment, though it says it will soon abolish it.
Ocalan is being  tried in absentia there on charges that could bring the death penalty.
D'Alema said a committee in the Interior Ministry would determine  whether Ocalan would qualify for political asylum, which would be  possible if Ocalan's promise to renounce terrorism, issued Monday,  holds up.
``We do not want someone who organizes terrorism in Italy,''  D'Alema said.
``This is an opportunity to find an exit from a bloody  conflict.''
Earlier Monday, while members of D'Alema's government  met with Turkish officials who were in Rome for a European ministerial  meeting, thousands of Kurds flooded into Rome to hold a demonstration  and hunger strike in support of Ocalan.
D'Alema's decision was further  complicated on Sunday when Turkish inmates in a prison in Istanbul  took an Italian prisoner hostage, saying they would release him only  after Italy extradited Ocalan.
Monday, D'Alema said he would not bow  to pressure.
Exxon and Mobil discuss combining business operations.
A possible Exxon-Mobil merger would reunite 2 parts of Standard Oil broken up by the Supreme Court in 1911.
Low crude oil prices and the high cost of exploration are motives for a merger that would create the world's largest oil company.
As Exxon-Mobil merger talks continue, stocks of both companies surge.
The merger talks show that corporate mergers are back in vogue.
Antitrust lawyers, industry analysts, and government officials say a merger would require divestitures.
A Mobil employee worries that a merger would put thousands out of work, but notes that his company's stock would go up.
In a move considered unthinkable a few years ago, Exxon Corp. and Mobile Corp, have entered into negotiations which could result in a merger of the two companies.
Such a merger, should it occur, would form the world's largest oil company and the largest U.S. company, placing it above Wal-Mart.
The merger, and talks like it among other oil companies, is being prompted By low petroleum prices and high production costs.
Talks of a merger have sent the price of stocks of both companies soaring.
The merger could prompt anti-trust action and the merging companies would have to divest themselves of some interests.
Mobile workers fear a merger will cost them jobs.
Exxon Corp and Mobil Corp are reported to be discussing a business merger.
Other oil companies have merged to compensate for low oil prices and increasing costs of oil exploration in more remote areas.
The mergers are consistent with a trend in corporate marriages that is changing U.S. economic history.
The mergers are pushing stocks up and the Exxon-Mobil merger could benefit consumers and lead to further savings.
Some people believe the merger would require selling of large corporate pieces and put thousands out of work.
If the companies merge, it would be the largest U.S. company and bigger than the world's largest oil company, Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
Exxon and Mobil consider merger.
Partnerships already formed.
Oil prices are lowest in 12 years and future exploration will be costly.
The new company would be largest in the US and put back together pieces of Standard Oil, a monopoly broken up by courts.
Experts mixed on merger's advantages.
It would be an anti-trust test, since companies are involved in many facets of the business, require the sale of large units.
Refinery workers, others would lose jobs.
There is an upswing in corporate mergers, pushed by bull market and recognition that it's hard to increase revenue internally.
Merger anticipation sent stocks higher in oil, internet and computers.
Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. have held discussions about combining  their business operations, a person involved in the talks said Wednesday.
It was unclear Wednesday whether talks were continuing.
If the companies  were to merge, it would create the largest U.S. company in terms of  revenue.
A possible merger was reported separately by both The Financial  Times of London and Bloomberg News.
The reported talks between Exxon,  whose annual revenue exceeds that of Wal-Mart and General Electric,  and Mobil, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, come as oil prices have sunk  to their lowest in almost 12 years.
A combined company would be bigger  than Royal Dutch/Shell Group, the world's largest oil company by revenue.
Financial terms of the discussions could not be determined Wednesday.
Neither Exxon or Mobil would comment.
Any union would reunite two  parts of John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust, which was broken  up by the Supreme Court in 1911.
Exxon was then known as Standard  Oil of New Jersey, and Mobil consisted of two companies: Standard  Oil of New York and Vacuum Oil.
Both Exxon, which has a market value  of $176.7 billion, and Mobil, which has a market value of $61.1 billion,  have a history of being fiercely independence.
Both have already cut  back on staff and made themselves lean in order to survive long periods  when oil prices are low.
But this has been a particularly unsettling  year for the oil industry, and there is little prospect that crude  oil prices will recover soon.
Consequently, chief executives of most  oil companies have had to swallow their pride and look for suitable  partners.
This summer, British Petroleum announced a $48.2 billion  agreement to buy Amoco Corp., creating the world's third-largest oil  company and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation.
``It showed that megamergers are doable,'' said Adam Sieminski, an  analyst for BT Alex. Brown.
He added, however, that a combination  between Exxon and Mobil would not be an easy match because Mobil has  been known for being a proud company that has said in the past that  it would not want to merge.
Exxon, he added, is a ``well run company  that likes to grow its own businesses.''
He added that the heads of  both companies, Lee Raymond, the chairman of Exxon, which is based  in Irving, Texas, and Lucio Noto, the chairman, president and chief  executive of Mobil, which is based in Fairfax, Va., are different  personalities.
``It will not be easy,'' he said of combining the two  far-flung companies, which have vast networks of refineries and gas  stations that overlap in the United States and Europe.
``If you offer  enough money you can make anything happen,'' he added.
Both companies  are under pressure to find new fields of oil to help them survive  in the long term.
Like other oil companies, they had hoped to quickly  tap into the vast reserves of Russia.
Even though they were prepared  to spend billions, they have held back because of the political and  economic crisis in Russia and great reluctance by Russian officials  and oil companies to give up control of vast fields.
Thus they have  had to fall back on their own exploration areas such as the deep waters  in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
Such exploration is very expensive,  and even when large fields are found it often takes platforms costing  $1 billion to bring the oil into production.
Oil prices have been  under pressure for more than a year, falling more than 40 percent  from the $20-a-barrel level because of growing inventories of petroleum  and declining Asian demand caused by the economic crisis there.
On  Wednesday, crude oil for January delivery fell 29 cents, or 2.6 percent,  to $11.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, close to the  12-year low of $11.42 reached on June 15.
Members of the Organization  of Petroleum Exporting Countries and some other oil-producing nations,  notably Mexico, have tried to stem the price drops with pledges to  cut back on production.
But those pledges have not always been honored,  and rallies in the oil market this year have proven short-lived.
OPEC  members on Wednesday continued their discussion on extending their  production cutbacks, and an agreement is expected as early as Thursday.
In the spring, OPEC agreed to reduce production by 2.6 million barrels  a day, about 3 percent of the daily world supply of 74 million barrels.
The main result of that agreement appears to have been to keep oil  prices from falling below $10 a barrel.
Washington regulators said  Wednesday that they had not been notified about the Exxon-Mobil discussions.
The Federal Trade Commission is still reviewing British Petroleum's  pending purchase of Amoco.
An Exxon-Mobil deal would be certain to  receive several months' worth of scrutiny by the commission, which  would review how much of the industry such a merger would control.
Analysts and investment bankers were split about the logic of the  possible merger.
Some pointed to difficulties that the companies could  face if they were combined.
``If you asked me if Exxon needed to be  bigger, the answer is probably no,'' said Garfield Miller, president  of Aegis Energy Advisors Corp., a small independent investment bank  based in New York.
``It is hard to say that there is anything in particular  to gain.''
In particular, Miller said, the two companies have enormous  similarities in their domestic refining and marketing businesses.
``They really do overlap quite a bit,'' he said.
``You really do wonder  what is the benefit of all that redundancy.''
Another investment banker  in the energy business, speaking on the condition of anonymity, also  questioned the rationale for the discussed merger.
``When you look  at the BP-Amoco deal, you can rationalize it,'' the banker said.
``But  none of those reasons apply to an Exxon-Mobil deal.''
But Amy Jaffe,  an energy research analyst with the James A. Baker III Institute for  Public Policy, said the combination of the two companies would be  logical, in part because it would give them greater influence in bidding  for projects in Middle Eastern countries.
``This is a deal that makes  sense,'' Ms. Jaffe said.
``With this combined company, there is no  project that would be too big.''
In addition, Ms. Jaffe said, the  merger would provide each company with new oil and gas assets in areas  of the world where they had little influence.
``There are a lot of  complimentary assets where they are not redundant,'' she said.
She  said that Exxon, for example, has a strong presence in Angola, while  Mobil does not.
And Mobil has significant assets in the Caspian Sea  and Nigeria, where Exxon is weak.
Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. have held discussions about combining  their business operations, a person involved in the talks said Wednesday.
It was unclear Wednesday whether talks were continuing.
If the companies  were to merge, it would create the largest U.S. company in terms of  revenue.
A possible merger was reported separately by both The Financial  Times of London and Bloomberg News.
The reported talks between Exxon,  whose annual revenue exceeds that of General Electric Co., and Mobil,  the No. 2 U.S. oil company, came as oil prices sank to their lowest  in almost 12 years.
A combined company would be bigger than Royal  Dutch/Shell Group, the world's largest oil company by revenue.
Financial  terms of the discussions could not be determined Wednesday.
Neither  Exxon or Mobil would comment.
Any union would reunite two parts of  John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust, which was broken up by the  Supreme Court in 1911.
Exxon was then known as Standard Oil of New  Jersey, and Mobil consisted of two companies: Standard Oil of New  York and Vacuum Oil.
As oil prices have plummeted to levels last seen  in the mid-1980s, oil companies have been under pressure to cut costs.
Exxon, which has a market value of $176.7 billion, and Mobil, which  has a market value of $61.1 billion, both have histories of being  fiercely independent, and both have already cut back on staff and  made themselves lean to survive even during a prolonged period of  low oil prices.
But this has been a particularly unsettling year for  the oil industry, and there is little prospect that crude oil prices  will recover soon.
Consequently, chief executives of most oil companies  have had to swallow their pride and look for suitable partners.
This  summer, British Petroleum announced an agreement to buy Amoco Corp.
for $48.2 million, creating the world's third-largest oil company  and prompting analysts to predict even more widespread consolidation.
``It showed that megamergers are doable,'' said Adam Sieminski, an  analyst for BT Alex. Brown.
He added, however, that any combination  between Exxon and Mobil would not be an easy match because Mobil has  been known for being a proud company that has said in the past that  it would not want to merge.
Exxon, he added, is a ``well-run company  that likes to grow its own businesses.''
He added that the heads of  both companies, Lee Raymond, the chairman of Exxon, which is based  in Irving, Texas, and Lucio Noto, the chairman, president and chief  executive of Mobil, which is based in Fairfax, Va., are different  personalities.
``It will not be easy,'' he said of combining the two  far-flung companies, which have vast networks of refineries and gas  stations that overlap in the United States and Europe.
``If you offer  enough money you can make anything happen,'' he added.
Both companies  are under pressure to find new fields of oil to help them survive  in the long term.
Like other oil companies, they had hoped to quickly  tap into the vast reserves of Russia.
Even though they were prepared  to spend billions, they have held back because of the political and  economic crisis in Russia and great reluctance by Russian officials  and oil companies to give up control of vast fields.
Thus they have  had to fall back on exploration areas of their own such as the deep  waters in the Gulf of Mexico as well as West Africa and parts of Asia.
Such exploration is very expensive, and even when a big field is discovered,  platforms costing $1 billion or more are required to bring the it  into production.
Oil prices have been under pressure for more than  a year, falling more than 40 percent from the $20-a-barrel level because  of growing inventories of petroleum and declining Asian demand caused  by the economic crisis there.
On Wednesday, crude oil for January  delivery fell 29 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.86 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange, close to the 12-year low of $11.42 reached  on June 15.
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  and some other oil-producing nations, notably Mexico, have tried to  stem the price drops with pledges to cut back on production.
But those  pledges have not always been honored, and rallies in the oil market  this year have proven short-lived.
OPEC members on Wednesday continued  their discussion on extending their production cutbacks, and an agreement  is expected as early as Thursday.
In the spring, OPEC agreed to reduce  production by 2.6 million barrels a day, about 3 percent of the daily  world supply of 74 million barrels.
The main result of that agreement  appears to have been to keep oil prices from falling below $10 a barrel.
Washington regulators said Wednesday that they had not been notified  about the Exxon-Mobil discussions.
The Federal Trade Commission is  still reviewing British Petroleum's pending purchase of Amoco.
An  Exxon-Mobil deal would be certain to receive several months' worth  of scrutiny by the commission, which would review how much of the  industry the combined company would control.
Analysts and investment  bankers were split about the logic of a potential deal.
Some pointed  to difficulties that the companies could face if they were combined.
``If you asked me if Exxon needed to be bigger, the answer is probably  no,'' said Garfield Miller, president of Aegis Energy Advisors Corp.,  a small independent investment bank based in New York.
``It is hard  to say that there is anything in particular to gain.''
In particular,  Miller said, the two companies have enormous similarities in their  domestic refining and marketing businesses.
``They really do overlap  quite a bit,'' he said.
``You really do wonder what is the benefit  of all that redundancy.''
Another investment banker in the energy  business, speaking on the condition of anonymity, also questioned  the rationale for the discussed merger.
``When you look at the BP-Amoco  deal, you can rationalize it,'' the banker said.
``But none of those  reasons apply to an Exxon-Mobil deal.''
But Amy Jaffe, an energy research  analyst with the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, said  the combination of the two companies would be logical, in part because  it would give them greater influence in bidding for development projects  in the Middle East.
``This is a deal that makes sense,'' Ms. Jaffe  said.
``With this combined company, there is no project that would  be too big.''
Ms. Jaffe said the proposed deal would provide each  company with assets in areas where it had little influence.
``There  are a lot of complementary assets where they are not redundant,''  she said.
She said that Exxon, for example, has a strong presence  in Angola, while Mobil does not.
And Mobil has significant assets  in the Caspian Sea and Nigeria, where Exxon is weak.
Whether or not the talks between Exxon and Mobil lead to a merger  or some other business combination, America's economic history is  already being rewritten.
In energy as in businesses like financial  services, telecommunications and automobiles, global competition and  technology have made unthinkable combinations practical, even necessary.
Oil companies like Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. have an additional  pressure, one unthinkable less than two decades ago.
Crude oil prices  have fallen sharply, plunging 40 percent just this year to levels,  adjusted for inflation, not seen since before the first oil embargo  25 years ago.
As such, the oil companies, having spent years cutting  their costs, are desperate for further savings in order to continue  operating profitably with such low prices.
Exxon and Mobil are the  two largest, strongest competitors to emerge from the nation's most  famous antitrust case, the 1911 breakup of John D. Rockefeller's Standard  Oil Trust.
Now they face a Royal Dutch/Shell Group that is larger  than either of them.
They will also confront a British Petroleum PLC  made far more potent in the United States by its agreement this summer  to buy Amoco Corp. for $48.2 billion.
Industry executives say further  deals on this scale are inevitable.
Executives at both companies did  not return calls Thursday for comment on the talks, and it was unclear  Thursday night what the outcome might be.
But if Exxon and Mobil agree  to become one, antitrust regulators are likely to be cautious about  putting back together much of what they long ago broke apart.
Even  so, most oil industry analysts contend that improved efficiency from  combining giant energy companies would do more to lower costs than  the more concentrated ownership of gas stations and refineries would  do to raise them.
``The ultimate beneficiary of all this will be the  consumer,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research  Associates.
If Exxon and Mobil ultimately do combine, the costs could  prove heaviest for energy industry employees.
Analysts say that of  the about 80,000 global employees at Exxon, based in Irving, Texas,  and the more than 40,000 at Mobil, in Fairfax, Va., thousands would  be likely to lose their jobs.
Exxon, with Lee R. Raymond, and Mobil,  with Lucio A. Noto, both have chief executives who have been preoccupied  with the humbling accommodations that low oil prices have made necessary.
Oil companies were everybody's favorite targets during the trust-busting  era early this century and again during the Arab oil embargoes of  the 1970s.
Now they seem especially vulnerable as demand weakens in  much of the world, especially in economically troubled Asia, weighing  further on already depressed prices.
``They're pitiful, helpless giants,''  said Ronald Chernow, the author of ``Titan,'' a biography of John  D. Rockefeller, Standard Oil's founder.
As such, these giants are  compelled to continue cutting costs and spreading the risks of their  huge, expensive international projects that are needed to develop  oil reserves needed for the next century.
Mobil, with $58.4 billion  in sales last year, might seem large enough to undertake anything.
But in competing for rights to develop huge natural gas fields in  Turkmenistan, a former Soviet republic, Mobil was unable to match  Shell's offer to build a pipeline for $1 billion or more.
Oil companies  have decided that they cannot count on a rebound in oil prices to  revive their fortunes any time soon.
Earlier this month, the Energy  Department predicted that the collapse of Asian demand would continue  to depress oil prices for nearly a decade, and by as much as $5.50  a barrel in the year 2000.
And Thursday, the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting Countries put off until March any decision on extending  their oil production cutbacks to prop up prices.
Moreover, improving  technology for exploration and production and the opening of new regions  to development have added to the already huge supply of oil that is  on hand now.
In response, many energy companies have already begun  a new wave of cutbacks in their staffs and operations.
To further  reduce costs, companies like Mobil are forming partnerships that stop  short of full mergers.
Two years ago, Mobil agreed to combine its  European refining and marketing operations with British Petroleum's,  resulting in annual savings of about $500 million.
Shell and Texaco  then formed a refining partnership in the United States.
In the face  of these partnerships, said Amy Jaffe, an energy analysts with the  James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy in Houston, ``if you're  an Exxon, how do you compete?''
Though Mobil and Exxon might have  high concentrations of gas stations in certain areas of the United  States, analysts say they have far more competition at the pump than  before oil prices collapsed in the 1980s.
Thousands of convenience  stores now also sell gasoline produced by a variety of refining companies,  and foreign national oil companies, like Venezuela's, sell their supplies  through acquired companies like Citgo.
Under Noto, Mobil has been  hunting for ways of becoming large and lean enough to survive.
He  took the lead in the deal with British Petroleum and has considered  buying up smaller companies.
And he has made it clear that corporate  or personal pride would never block a deal.
In the European agreement  with British Petroleum, Mobil's red flying horses have come down from  the fronts of many gas stations, while the green and yellow BP logos  have gone up.
As major oil companies team up, said John Hervey, an  analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &AMP; Jenrette, ``If the price is right,  egos will not get in the way.''
In the past, Mobil reportedly had  further talks with British Petroleum about other combinations, as  well as talks with Amoco about forming an American refining venture.
The company was also interested in Conoco Inc. when DuPont Co. began  looking to divest itself of that oil and gas business.
But no deals  were reached.
More recently, there was speculation on Wall Street  that Mobil had been talking with Chevron Corp.
British Petroleum purchase  of Amoco put more pressure on Noto to seek a deal, Hervey said.
``I  don't think this whole thing would have started if British Petroleum  had not pulled the trigger,'' he said.
The British Petroleum-Amoco  deal, progressing quickly since the August announcement towards an  expected $2 billion in annual savings, has put even companies as large  as Exxon on the spot.
There, Raymond has so far concentrated more  on making his operations more efficient than on finding allies.
Though  Royal Dutch/Shell's financial resources are greater than Exxon's,  some analysts say Exxon still has the size and soundness to absorb  a company of Mobil's size.
Only the largest oil companies can afford  to take advantage of today's best opportunities.
Finding new fields  in the deep waters off the coast of West Africa or in the Gulf of  Mexico can require platforms costing $1 billion or more.
Producing  oil in the states of the former Soviet Union has taken more time and  money than many investors anticipated.
In September, Noto was among  the American executives invited by a Saudi leader visiting Washington  to greatly step up investments in his country, too.
Noto spent from  1977 to 1985 in Saudi Arabia himself, building up Mobil operations  including a huge refinery.
But any new partnerships with the Saudis  might require both Mobil's connections and Exxon's capital.
Back when  Standard Oil organized its operations by state, Exxon was Standard  Oil of New Jersey, while Mobil was Standard Oil of New York.
Even  after the Standard Oil monopoly was broken up, they remained for several  years in the same building in Manhattan.
Chernow, the Rockefeller  biographer, noted that two pieces of the Standard Oil trust are already  likely to be united.
British Petroleum bought Standard Oil of Ohio  in the 1970s, and Amoco was once Standard Oil of Indiana.
The break-up  of Standard Oil and the resulting competition has often been cited  as a precedent for the current antitrust action against Microsoft.
Chernow sees no reason why allowing an Exxon acquisition of Mobil  to go through should suggest more leniency for Microsoft.
``Exxon  would not be obviously larger than its leading competitors, the way  Microsoft is,'' he said.
In the energy business today, he added, ``there  are other large dinosaurs that stalk that particular jungle.''
News that Exxon and Mobil, two giants in the energy patch, were in  merger talks last week is the biggest sign yet that corporate marriages  are back in vogue.
Even before that combination came to light, deal-making  was fast and furious.
On Monday alone, $40.4 billion in corporate  acquisitions were either announced or declared imminent.
Driving the  resurgence in mergers is a roaring stock market, the recognition by  major corporations that it is getting harder to increase revenues  internally and growing confidence among market players that the economy  will not plunge into a recession next year.
There are also industry-specific  issues, like low crude-oil prices that are driving oil giants into  one another's arms.
But for investors, mega-marriages are not where  the real money is to be made.
Rather, it is among smaller companies,  whose still-depressed stock prices are luring bigger acquirers with  stocks that again are near their peaks.
If Exxon buys Mobil at close  to current prices, deals this month will have a total value of more  off from April's peak of $244 billion but three  times the volume in September, when the stock market was falling.
Which industries are likely to witness the most mergers?
Tom Burnett,  director of Merger Insight, an institutional investment advisory firm  in New York, says more deals are a certainty in energy, which is suffering  from low crude-oil prices.
Burnett also says health care executives  are finding it tougher than ever to lift earnings.
But smaller companies  may be a better way to play the takeover game.
Charles LaLoggia, editor  of the Special Situation Investor newsletter in Potomac, Md., said:  ``Some of the premiums in high-profile mergers aren't so great anymore.
The values are in small-cap stocks.''
Another reason is that deals  involving smaller-cap candidates are less likely to incur the wrath  of antitrust regulators.
LaLoggia reckons that the odds of picking  takeover winners increase if an investor focuses on companies already  partially owned by another.
In the energy sector, Houston Exploration  qualifies, he says; the oil and gas driller is 66 percent owned by  Keyspan Energy.
He also believes more deals are imminent among drug  chains and supermarkets.
Longs Drug Stores and Drug Emporium, he says,  remain acquisition candidates, though neither is controlled by another  concern.
In supermarkets, LaLoggia likes the Great Atlantic &AMP;  Pacific Tea Co., 55 percent owned by Tengelmann Group of Germany.
Another pick is Smart and Final, an operator of warehouse-style stores  that is 55 percent owned by the U.S. subsidiary of Groupe Casino,  France's largest supermarket chain.
``Both A&AMP;P and Smart and Final  are trading at just about book value,'' LaLoggia said.
Takeovers typically  occur above book value.
Finally, he recommends National Presto Industries,  a maker of housewares and electrical appliances, which is trading  near $39, close to its low for the year.
The company has $30 a share  in cash on its balance sheet, no debt and a dividend yield of 5 percent.
After last month's announced acquisition of Rubbermaid by the Newell  Co., LaLoggia thinks National Presto could find itself in an acquirer's  cross-hairs.
Times are tough in the oil patch.
Still, it boggles the mind to accept  the notion that hardship is driving profitable Big Oil to either merge,  as British Petroleum and Amoco have already agreed to do, or at least  to consider the prospect, as Exxon and Mobil are doing.
Still, Big  Oil and small oil are getting squeezed by low petroleum prices and  the high capital costs of exploration.
Given the exotic locales of  the most promising, untapped fields, it seems unlikely that exploration  will get cheaper.
And with West Texas crude trading at around $12  a barrel, it seems a safe bet oil that won't be selling for $100 a  a price some analysts in the early  1980s were predicting it would reach.
Philip K. Verleger Jr., publisher  of Petroleum Economics Monthly and a senior adviser to the Brattle  Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, spent some time late last  week talking about Mobil, Exxon and the changing dynamics of the oil  business.
Following are excerpts from the conversation: Q. (italics)There  is a lot of focus on the antitrust aspects of an Exxon-Mobil deal.
Do you see any problems?
(end italics) A. Let me say right off that  I don't think this is a done deal.
I think it is far from that.
But  if it were to happen, I don't see many problems.
BP Amoco is the perfect  end-to-end merger, one in which there is little or no overlap with  the company you are merging with.
Exxon-Mobil comes close.
The first  issue is competition in local markets.
The only possible problem area  there is on the West Coast, but both companies are pretty small players  there.
If there is a reason this merger might get extra attention,  it will be because Exxon and Mobil have not been terribly friendly  toward either the Clinton administration's or the European Union's  positions on global warming.
Q. (italics)Why are you skeptical about  the deal?
(end italics) A. Well, Mobil has been trying to get bigger.
They had talks with Amoco.
They wanted to buy Conoco.
But I don't  understand where Lucio Noto, Mobil's chief executive, fits into this.
That could be an impediment to an agreement, because in a merger I  don't think he has a place, and he has been a very strong leader.
Q. (italics)Mobil is the country's second-biggest oil company, behind  Exxon.
Why do they need to get bigger?
(end italics) A.
In the first  decade of the next century, the really big exploration opportunities  will be very capital intensive, and only companies with the deepest  pockets will be able to stay in the game: Royal Dutch, Exxon and BP  Amoco.
Companies of Mobil's size are probably marginal players.
Q.  (italics)That suggests Mobil has been harder hit than Exxon by the  downturn in prices.
(end italics) A. From 1988 to 1996, Exxon's exploration  and production expenditures rose 8 percent.
Mobil's rose 14 percent.
But Mobil's expenditures were much more sensitive to price elasticities  of oil than Exxon's.
They were pushing the envelope, and when prices  fell they had to cut back.
Exxon has tried to build a very large presence  systematically, without paying much attention to month-to-month or  even year-to-year fluctuations in oil prices.
They are brutally efficient.
Q. (italics)Earlier this month the Energy Department said oil prices  would stay soft for nearly a decade.
Do you agree?
You know, every time I see forecasts that go out that far I want to  go out and buy stock in oil companies.
I think we are going to see  low oil prices for six months to a year.
It is conceivable we could  go into the next century with oil at $5 a barrel, depending on what  happens to the world economy.
During that period, we are going to  see a substantial reduction in investment in exploration and production,  leading to a reduction in supply coming out of non-OPEC countries.
That will strengthen the hands of the OPEC countries.
And when the  Asian economies start growing again that will lead to a good deal  higher oil prices, say $20 a barrel, in the next 18 months.
Q. (italics)The  number of oil companies is going to shrink in coming years, regardless,  isn't it?
We are probably heading toward a world in  which there are no more than five or six big oil companies, possibly  eight.
There is really no precedent for having as many big players  as we have in the oil business in this modern society.
Q. (italics)Do  you think oil stocks are a good investment?
(end italics) A. I think  oil companies are still a worthwhile investment, but it is not a place  where an investor should plan on making money over the next 9 to 12  months.
And it is an area where investors need to be careful, because  in that period there will be a good deal of consolidation among smaller  companies.
It was new highs again for the Standard &AMP; Poor's 500-stock and  Nasdaq composite indexes Friday as anticipation of a new wave of mergers  and a general rush by investors to join the equity rebound pushed  stocks up.
Oil stocks led the way as investors soaked up the news  of continuing talks between Exxon and Mobil on a merger that would  create the world's largest oil company.
Internet and computer stocks  also rallied, helped in part by the announcement on Tuesday of America  Online's purchase of Netscape Communications in a three-way deal involving  Sun Microsystems.
At the same time, Germany's Deutsche Bank and Bankers  Trust are scheduled to formally announce their merger on Monday.
``There  is no question that the merger euphoria is the headline,'' said Hugh  Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corp. ``But  the flow into mutual funds is also strong.''
Exxon rose 1 11/16, to  74], while Mobil jumped 7|, to 86.
Chevron, reflecting the bounce  that other oil companies got from the merger news, climbed 5\, to  85|.
Exxon and Chevron, along with IBM, which rose 3\, to 170, were  the main drivers of the Dow Jones industrial average.
It climbed 18.80  points, or two-tenths of a percent, to 9,333.08.
It now stands just  41 points short of the record it set Monday and up 1.9 percent for  the week.
Mobil, along with Exxon, Chevron, IBM and Microsoft, which  rose 3 13/16, to 128 1/16, were the power behind the S &AMP; P.
It  climbed 5.46 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,192.33, a new  high, the second of the week.
It jumped 2.5 percent in the last five  trading days.
Cisco Systems, up 2 15/16, to 80; MCI Worldcom, up 1  11/16, to 62 7/16; Sun Microsystems, up 4|, to 80], and Microsoft  pushed the Nasdaq index to its first new high since July 20.
The technology-heavy  index finished 31.23 points, or 1.57 percent, higher, at 2,016.44.
It was up 4.6 percent for the week.
Whether Friday's gains will stick  will not be known before Monday.
It was a shortened trading session,  with the New York Stock Exchange closing at 1 p.m., and trading volume,  at 257 million shares, made it the lightest day of the year.
In the  bond market, which also closed early because of the Thanksgiving weekend,  the price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 11/32, to 101 12/32.
The  bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price,  fell to 5.16 percent from 5.18 percent on Wednesday.
Long-term and  short-term yields all slipped lower this week despite new economic  data that indicated the economy was stronger in the third quarter  than expected and seems to be moving along at a good pace in the current  quarter.
This small recovery in the face of stronger growth is probably  because new inflation numbers show that prices are in check and analysts  are still forecasting that the economy will begin to slow down next  year.
Many analysts have noted during the eight-week stock market  rally, in which the Nasdaq composite index jumped 42 percent, that  investors were buying again even though major financial problems around  including a slumping Asia, a weakening Latin America and  a troubled Russia _ have not been resolved.
Johnson said he thought  that investors, inspired by the Federal Reserve's three interest rate  cuts in two months and by the new stimulus package in Japan, assume  that these problems will be solved.
``Investors are looking over the  valley and they like what they see,'' he said.
But he worries that  the financial crisis, which began in Thailand in July 1997 and was  intensified by the effective default of Russia in August, will not  go away quickly.
``It seems that in every financial crisis, everybody  gets the impression that the storm has passed,'' Johnson said.
``But  it is never that easy.''
The boards of Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. are expected to meet Tuesday  to consider a possible merger agreement that would form the world's  largest oil company, a source close to the negotiations said Friday.
The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ``the prospects  were good'' for completing an agreement.
Exxon and Mobil confirmed  Friday that they were discussing ways to combine.
They cautioned,  however, that no agreement had been reached and there was no assurance  they would reach one.
The statement sent the stock of both companies  surging, suggesting investors believe the companies will combine.
Shares of Exxon, the biggest U.S. oil company, rose $1.6875, or 2.3  percent, to $74.375.
Shares of Mobil, the No. 2 U.S. oil company,  rose $7.625, or 9.7 percent, to $86.
Some analysts said that if the  two giants reached an agreement, it was likely to be in the form of  a takeover by Exxon of Mobil.
Exxon is far larger and financially  stronger.
Analysts predicted that there would be huge cuts in duplicate  staff from both companies, which employ 122,700 people.
Adam Sieminski,  an oil analyst for BT Alex. Brown, said that the companies would probably  make cuts to save about $3 billion to $5 billion a year.
Sieminski  and other analysts said Exxon would have to offer a premium of about  15 to 20 percent over its price prior to Monday, when serious speculation  of an Exxon takeover of Mobil first circulated and sent Mobil shares  up sharply.
They said the transaction would probably be an exchange  of Mobil shares for Exxon shares.
Based on Mobil's $75.25 share price  a week ago, a takeover of the company would be worth about $70 billion.
The merger discussions come against a backdrop of particularly severe  pressure on Lucio Noto, the chairman, president and chief executive  of Mobil, to find new reserves of oil and natural gas and to keep  big projects profitable at a time of a deep decline in crude oil prices.
``This is one of the most intelligent chief executives in the business  and a man of considerable ability but he inherited some serious structural  problems in his company,'' said J. Robin West, the chairman of Petroleum  Finance Co., a consulting group to the energy industry based in Washington.
He said that Mobil's prime assets include the Arun natural gas field  in Indonesia, one of the largest in the world, which has contributed  up to one-third of Mobil's profits for years but is beginning to run  down.
The field, in production since 1977, supplies liquefied natural  gas to Japan and Korea.
Although Mobil under Noto has moved quickly  to cut costs and muscle its way into promising new areas such as Kazakhstan,  where it is a partner in a joint venture to develop the huge Tengiz  oil field, the payoff from such ventures is many years away.
Other  companies face similar strains.
``The challenge is to replace their  crown jewels and grow in an increasingly competitive environment,''  West said.
Noto has not been shy about sitting down with other companies  such as British Petroleum and Amoco this year to see if a combination  made sense.
Although Exxon chairman Lee Raymond heads a much stronger  and bigger company than Mobil, he has not been immune to the strains  on the global petroleum business.
Those strains intensified this year  when Russia's economic collapse raised the risks of Exxon's extensive  exploration venture in that country.
Exxon has also been more of a  follower than a leader in huge projects in the deep offshore fields,  where major finds have been made near West Africa and in the Gulf  of Mexico.
Times are tough in the oil patch.
Still, it boggles the mind to accept  the notion that hardship is driving profitable Big Oil to either merge,  as British Petroleum and Amoco have already agreed to do, or at least  to consider the prospect, as Exxon and Mobil are doing.
Oil companies  of all stripes are getting squeezed by low petroleum prices and the  high capital costs of exploration.
Given the exotic locales of the  most promising untapped fields, it seems unlikely that exploration  will get cheaper.
And with West Texas crude trading at around $12  a barrel, it seems a safe bet that oil won't be selling for $100 a  something analysts were predicting  during the oil price run-up of the early 1980s.
Philip Verleger Jr.,  publisher of Petroleum Economics Monthly and a senior adviser to the  Brattle Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, spent some time  late last week talking about Mobil, Exxon and the changing dynamics  of the oil business.
Following are excerpts from the conversation:  Q.
There is a lot of focus on the antitrust aspects of an Exxon-Mobil  deal.
Do you see any problems?
A. Let me say right off that I don't  think this is a done deal.
I think it is far from that.
But if it  were to happen, I don't see many problems.
BP Amoco is the perfect  end-to-end merger, one in which there is little or no overlap with  the company you are merging with.
Exxon-Mobil comes close.
The first  issue is competition in local markets.
The only possible problem area  there is on the West Coast, but both companies are pretty small players  there.
If there is a reason this merger might get extra attention,  it will be because Exxon and Mobil have not been terribly friendly  toward either the Clinton administration's or the European Union's  positions on global warming.
Q.
Why are you skeptical about the deal?
A. Well, Mobil has been trying to get bigger.
They had talks with  Amoco.
They wanted to buy Conoco.
But I don't understand where Lucio  Noto, Mobil's chief executive, fits into this.
That could be an impediment  to an agreement, because in a merger I don't think he has a place,  and he has been a very strong leader.
Q. Mobil is the country's second-biggest  oil company, behind Exxon.
Why do they need to get bigger?
A.
In the  first decade of the next century, the really big exploration opportunities  will be very capital intensive, and only companies with the deepest  pockets will be able to stay in the game: Royal Dutch, Exxon and BP  Amoco.
Companies of Mobil's size are probably marginal players.
That suggests Mobil has been harder hit than Exxon by the downturn  in prices.
A. From 1988 to 1996, Exxon's exploration and production  expenditures rose 8 percent.
Mobil's rose 14 percent.
But Mobil's  expenditures were much more sensitive to the price elasticities of  oil than Exxon's.
They were pushing the envelope, and when prices  fell they had to cut back.
Exxon has tried to build a very large presence  systematically, without paying much attention to month-to-month or  even year-to-year fluctuations in oil prices.
They are brutally efficient.
Earlier this month the Energy Department said oil prices would  stay soft for nearly a decade.
Do you agree?
You know, every time  I see forecasts that go out that far I want to go out and buy stock  in oil companies.
I think we are going to see low oil prices for six  months to a year.
It is conceivable we could go into the next century  with oil at $5 a barrel, depending on what happens to the world economy.
During that period, we are going to see a substantial reduction in  investment in exploration and production, leading to a reduction in  supply coming out of non-OPEC countries.
That will strengthen the  hands of the OPEC countries.
And when the Asian economies start growing  again, that will lead to a good deal higher oil prices, say $20 a  barrel, in the next 18 months.
The number of oil companies is going  to shrink in coming years, regardless, isn't it?
We are probably  heading toward a world in which there are no more than five or six  big oil companies, possibly eight.
There is really no precedent for  having as many big players as we have in the oil business in this  modern society.
Q. Do you think oil stocks are a good investment?
A. I think oil companies are still a worthwhile investment, but it  is not a place where an investor should plan on making money over  the next 9 to 12 months.
And it is an area where investors need to  be careful, because in that period there will be a good deal of consolidation  among smaller companies.
Exxon and Mobil, the nation's two largest oil companies, confirmed  Friday that they were discussing a possible merger, and antitrust  lawyers, industry analysts and government officials predicted that  any deal would require the sale of important large pieces of such  a new corporate behemoth.
Those divestitures would further reshape  an industry already undergoing a broad transformation because of the  low price of oil.
But the mergers and other corporate combinations  are also beginning to create a new regulatory climate among antitrust  officials, one that may prove particularly challenging to Exxon and  Mobil.
Although the companies only confirmed that they were discussing  the possibility of a merger, a person close to the discussions said  the boards of both Exxon and Mobil were expected to meet Tuesday to  consider an agreement.
Shares of both surged on the New York Stock  Exchange.
Oil exploration and drilling interests would not necessarily  present antitrust problems in an Exxon-Mobil merger because competition  in those areas is brisk.
But in retailing and marketing operations,  an Exxon-Mobil combination would be ``like Ford merging with General  Motors, Macy's with Gimbels,'' said Stephen Axinn, an antitrust lawyer  in New York who represented Texaco in its acquisition of Getty more  than a decade ago.
In the United States, the deal would come under  the purview of the Federal Trade Commission, which under the Clinton  administration has examined large corporate mergers with a vigor not  seen since the 1970s.
The agency has blocked a number of proposed  mergers, such as the $4 billion combination of Staples and Office  Depot, the two largest office supply discounters, and two deals involving  the four largest drug wholesalers.
On the other hand it has approved  other big mergers, such as Boeing's $14 billion acquisition of McDonnell  Douglas.
The agency's analysis of an Exxon-Mobil combination, a senior  official said Friday, will turn on how it might resemble John D. Rockefeller's  Standard Oil trust before it was dismantled by the Supreme Court in  1911.
``The big antitrust issue is whether, by a merger or alliance,  they will be able to get the competition of one another off their  backs, particularly against the background of BP-Amoco and Shell-Texaco,''  said Eleanor M. Fox, a professor at the New York University School  of Law and an antitrust expert.
``It may be that we are looking at  a consolidation on the world level that looked like the consolidation  on the national level 100 years ago.''
The Federal Trade Commission  recently approved a significant joint venture between Shell and Texaco  after the venture agreed to sell a refinery and divest some retailing  operations in Hawaii and California.
It is also considering the proposed  $54 billion merger of British Petroleum and Amoco and will now have  to re-examine that combination in light of the new talks between Exxon  and Mobil.
``In the past, when there have been two mergers involving  the same industry, the government has considered them together in  deciding how to deal with them,'' said Terry Calvani, a former commissioner  at the Federal Trade Commission whose clients now include Chevron.
But coming in the aftermath of the Shell-Texaco and BP-Amoco deals,  a combination of Exxon and Mobil, which have significantly overlapping  retail and refinery businesses in the United States and Europe, poses  questions that antitrust officials have not confronted since the 1980s.
``It's a real test case,'' said Frederick Leuffer, a senior energy  analyst at Bear Stearns.
``If the FTC let this one go through without  major divesting, then everything would be fair game.
Why couldn't  GM merge with Ford?''
While the 1911 breakup of Standard Oil is viewed  by Washington officials and industry executives as ancient history,  Exxon and Mobil have become the dominant rivals in some retailing  and refining markets, and in the production of lubricants and petrochemicals.
Leuffer said he believed divestitures necessary in this case ``could  be so large that they are deal-breakers.''
Other analysts and lawyers,  while disagreeing that the required divestitures could kill the deal,  said the companies would nonetheless have to shed significant operations  and that they expected challenges to be raised by a broad spectrum  of constituents, including competitors, customers and state officials.
``These are not absolute obstacles,'' said John Hervey, an analyst  at Donaldson Lufkin &AMP; Jenrette.
In the past, when two big oil  companies have merged, aggressive attorneys general from the states  have almost always become involved in raising questions because of  the high visibility of the local gas station.
``When a state attorney  general drives by and sees four stations on a corner and two of them  are Mobil and Exxon, they are certain to raise questions,'' Axinn  said.
Exxon and Mobil have significant concentrations of retailing  and marketing concerns in the Northeast, the Southwest and the West  Coast, where they also have big refining operations.
Because the two  companies are involved in everything from exploration and shipping  to refining and retailing, the meaning of the deal for consumers will  take months for the regulators to sort out.
The regulators examining  such a transaction would dissect each business, determine whether  its market is global, national or more local, and determine whether  the combined entity has too high a concentration of the business in  those areas.
Experts agreed that the regulators are most likely to  permit Exxon and Mobil to keep their exploratory and oil production  businesses because those areas are already highly competitive and  a merger would not result in higher prices.
Hervey said those markets  are already so fragmented that the combined market share of major  American and European oil companies is only 17 percent.
They have been downsized, cut back and re-engineered.
So when the  900 or so remaining blue-collar workers here at Mobil's largest domestic  refinery, out of about 1,500 a decade ago, heard last week that their  company was discussing a possible merger with Exxon, it was like a  siren warning them that an already suspect valve might be about to  blow.
``I think it's a terrible thing,'' said Dick Mabry, a refinery  operator, as he emerged in the plant's artificial twilight from the  main gate after his 12-hour shift ended at 4:30 on Sunday morning.
He stopped to rub eyes rimmed with red, but on this topic his bedtime  could be delayed.
``It's a revival of the Standard Oil Company.
It's  going to put 20 or 30 thousand people out of work.
I think the Justice  Department should step in and stop it.''
Ernest Lewis, whose overalls  bore a ``Big E'' patch appropriate to his scale, added his uh-huh's.
The latest evidence of where things were heading hulked right nearby,  he said, glancing over at a new power plant likely to be operated  by an outside company without the unions that now man the refinery's  generators.
But if the Mobil Corp. has to be sold, Lewis said, noting  the gains in his company stock holdings, a buyer as solid and large  as the Exxon Corp. might be the least of all evils.
``If we merged  with Chevron, we'd be Moron,'' he added.
A growing American economy  that can make a billionaire out of someone with an unproven idea for  Internet marketing is still sloughing off workers in older industries,  in petroleum as much as any.
Those here point to the tote board by  the Beaumont plant's brick headquarters, that they say shows they  have already handled 171 million barrels out of 130 million planned  for the full year.
But the numbers that matter even more are the ones  the lowest prices,  after inflation, since the Depression.
Which is why Mobil and Exxon  are considering combining into the world's largest oil company.
Some  people close to the talks cautioned that no deal would be considered  by their boards until at least Tuesday, maybe Wednesday.
And that  is why, beginning last Wednesday evening, the phone at the home of  Jimmy Herrington, the president of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers  Local 4-243 rang without stop.
No, he didn't know about that merger  talk on television, said Herrington, who also works full-time producing  lubricants.
He had asked some Mobil managers, in a meeting earlier  this month, about all the rumors, but they said they had heard nothing.
Oil industry analysts say that the first targets of a combined company's  efforts to cut billions of dollars in annual costs would be the office  staff and the professionals, like geologists and engineers, in the  field.
One company's accountants could almost do the work for two.
But the crews here fully expect that an Exxon or any other buyer would  ask yet again whether the refinery could turn more crude oil into  gasoline, motor oil and other products with even fewer people.
Union  leaders raise the prospect that Exxon would have to sell the refinery.
Antitrust regulators, they say, are bound to notice that Exxon has  refineries an hour's drive in one direction and three hours in the  other, along a Gulf of Mexico crescent that forms the petrochemical  industry's home.
The Beaumont plant, a steaming, humming chemistry  set lining the Neches River off the Gulf, has become the prime provider  of livelihoods here since it was built almost under the spray of the  nearby Spindletop gusher.
With mounting overtime that can stretch  a shift to 16 hours or more, workers regularly make $55,000 or $65,000  a year.
``People go there to retire there,'' Herrington said, as he  drove around the plant's fenced periphery.
Lewis, in his 17th year,  is a third-generation employee.
But his nephew laboring here too is  the exception.
The workers streaming to and from the plant before  dawn are mostly balding or going gray, a sign that for a full generation  the refinery has been more concerned about how to get rid of workers  than how to attract them.
The cutbacks have, so far, come through  attrition, with retirements often encouraged by incentives.
But the  plywood sheets covering the windows of most of the fast food places  and gas stations around Herrington's union hall advertise that the  best times are long gone.
His members chafe at the experts who come  in from Wall Street to question the justification for every person's  job.
In tiring and dangerous tasks, they question the elimination  of most relief laborers in favor of covering vacations and sickness  with overtime (although some like the extra pay, and they say the  plant has become safer over the years).
They complain about the growing  numbers of outside contractors taking over formerly unionized tasks.
But with many workers choosing to invest at least some retirement  savings in Mobil stock, a 1990s ethos is gaining.
Some share credit  with the plant's management for the efficiency measures they agree  are necessary for true job security.
Some take the attitude that every  company is always for sale.
``They will not be too concerned about  what we feel about it,'' said Sam Salim, one of the electrical plant  workers whose future is uncertain.
``But if they fork out $60 billion?
I'd look it over.''
With most Mobil executives saying as little as  possible for now, calls on Sunday to the local plant manager and a  company spokesman did not elicit a peep.
Union leaders, however, are  already squawking. ''
I don't believe creating new monopolies is the  way to prop up the industry,'' said Robert Wages, a former refinery  operator himself and now the union's president, by telephone Saturday.
Nevertheless, with admirable foresight the union negotiated a clause  in last November's three-year contract extension guaranteeing that  any company buyer would have to keep to its terms.
Many members, who  typically came to work after high school, are already molding the  oil companies' latest exploits into case studies fit for rapacious  MBA's.
``They're the biggest,'' said Bobby Whisneant, an assistant  operator in the gasoline and lubrication oil units, referring to Exxon.
He was coming, early on Sunday morning, through a plant gate whose  white canopy seems borrowed from a self-service station.
``So they  go buy the second biggest.
That's one way to get rid of the competition.
I just hope it's not something like the 80s _ buying companies and  scrapping them.''
Or something like the Robber Baron era a century  before, said Mabry, another operator.
``Didn't the teachers teach  us all through school that the Standard Oil Company would never come  back?
Remember that?''
he said, looking to his friend, Lewis, the  Big E, for agreement.
``But I better shut up.
I still work for Mobil.''
``Used to,'' Lewis said.
House Speaker-elect Robert L. Livingston was forced to admit to his Republican colleagues his past adultery.
This was forced by an investigation by Larry Flynt.
When Livingston called for Clinton to quit, House Democrats yelled, "You resign"!
Stunningly, he did.
TV commentators were caught off guard.
Livingston put pressure on Clinton to follow his example.
The House moved to impeach Clinton and called on the Senate to try him.
Livingston's downfall was said to show a breakdown in legislative civility.
Those who want impeachment were called radicals and fanatics.
Livingston's pursuit of Clinton was characterized as "rabid", showing his own hypocrisy.
As impeachment proceedings in the House approached a climax, House members were stunned by an admission from House Speaker elect Livingston that he was guilty of an adulterous affair.
The admission follows disclosures by Hustler published Larry Flynn, who had offered one million dollars to anyone who could provide such information on a House or Senate member.
Livingston's admission was met with a standing ovation by House members, as was his subsequent resignation.
In resigning, Livingston called on President Clinton to do the same.
Political pundits see the whole process as driven by partisan politics.
House Speaker-elect Robert Livingston shocked his Republican colleagues in the midst of a Clinton impeachment debate by admitting to adulterous affairs during his Congressional tenure.
He later urged Clinton to follow his example and resign that increased the fury of the impeachment debate.
The House moved to impeach the President for perjury and called on the Senate to try him, convict him and remove him from office.
Some who believe the debate shows the fanatical, partisan, and hateful side of Republican behavior, advise the Senate only to censure Clinton and thus avoid partisan vengeance.
The issue deepens a cultural fissure and a sense of uncertainty.
During the Clinton impeachment debate in the House, Speaker-elect Bob Livingston declared that he would set an example for the president and resign from Congress over revelations of his marital infidelities.
Republican demands that the president also resign were rejected by Democrats who also said that Livingston should not quit and that the Speaker-elect's resignation was, in the words of Jerrold Nadler (D-N.
Y), "a surrender to sexual McCarthyism".
With the House vote to impeach, the president will face a Senate trial, but it is unlikely that 67 members will vote for conviction.
The trial could be mercifully shortened, however, by a vote of censure.
House Speaker-elect Robert L. Livingston presented a fresh note of  shock to the impeachment debate against President Clinton on Thursday  night as the Republican leader was forced to admit to his Republican  colleagues that he had carried on adulterous affairs in his past.
``It has suddenly come to my attention that there are individuals  working together with the media who are investigating my personal  background in an effort to find indiscretions which may be exploitable  against me and my party on the eve of the upcoming historic vote on  impeachment,'' Livingston declared in a statement after appearing  before a shocked House Republican conference to head off the disclosure  as it surfaced in news reports.
After hearing his admissions in a  closed session, Livingston's colleagues gave him a standing ovation  of support and said the question of his resigning had never arisen.
``My fate is in your hands,'' Livingston told the Republicans, according  to lawmakers who were present.
The debate over the president's fate  would go forward, Republicans later insisted, drawing distinctions  between the speaker-elect's revelations and the sex-and-mendacity  scandal that has put Clinton on the brink of impeachment.
The president  is charged in an impeachment resolution with perjury and abuse of  power in his attempt to hide sexual indiscretions.
Democrats offered  no immediate comment, but Republicans were braced to hear Livingston's  admissions alluded to in the debate Friday by Democrats who have decried  the investigation of the president as basically a partisan and unfair  rummaging through his sex life.
Livingston, saying he had sought spiritual  counseling and had received the forgiveness of his family, noted he  had several times told reporters during his campaign to become speaker  that ``I was running for speaker, not sainthood.''
He added, ``There  was a reason for those words.''
``During my 33-year marriage to my  wife, Bonnie, I have on occasion strayed from my marriage, and doing  so nearly cost me my marriage and family,'' Livingston said in his  brief prepared statement.
But he attempted to draw a contrast with  the allegations against the president, asserting: ``I want to assure  everyone that these indiscretions were not with employees on my staff  and I have never been asked to testify under oath about them.''
The  disclosure of the speaker-elect's marital infidelities, disclosed  in ``Rollcall,'' a Capitol Hill newspaper, sent a new jolt of uncertainty  among lawmakers as they prepared for the momentous debate over the  president's admitted misbehavior in office and whether he should be  impeached and tried by the Senate.
Rep. Henry Hyde, the Republican  chairman of the House Judiciary Committee who is to bring the impeachment  charges against the president, previously was cited by a magazine  for an extra-marital affair in his past.
Then, as on Thursday night,  Republicans voiced suspicions that Democratic defenders of the president  instigated media investigations in an effort to embarrass the Clinton's  principal accusers.
But no proof was offered as Republicans left their  conference, facing the uncertainties of a debate that already promised  to be bare-knuckled in its partisanship.
Livingston left the conference  surrounded by Capitol police, not taking questions from waiting reporters.
His chief leadership aides immediately rallied in support.
``Some  who would rather not struggle with this constitutional question continue  to try to twist the debate into an unseemly investigation of private  lives,'' said Rep. Dick Armey, the Republican majority leader.
In  its report on the internet Thursday night, Rollcall did not disclose  its source but made an oblique reference to Hustler, the sex magazine.
Larry Flint, publisher of Hustler, earlier this year advertised an  offer of a $1 million bounty for information about e of members of  Congress guilty of sexual indiscretions.
``It breaks your heart because  we're all subject to human frailties,'' said Asa Hutchinson, R-Ark.,  as he left the conference.
``This is not a comfortable circumstance  for anyone,'' he added, insisting the president and the speaker-elect  presented two separate issues.
``We've got a duty to do under the  Constitution.''
Bob Livingston, the incoming speaker of the House, took no public  role Friday as the debate unfolded on whether to impeach President  Clinton.
His previous 24 hours had been his most visible in the month  since his party nominated him as speaker and perhaps the most excruciating  in his public career: He spent most of the day in a chaotic procedural  wrangle over the terms of Friday's debate; he ended it by telling  his Republican colleagues that he had had extramarital affairs during  his 20-year tenure in Congress.
His disclosure followed an investigation  by Larry Flynt, publisher of Hustler, the sex magazine, who said Friday  at a news conference in Beverly Hills, Calif., that his publication  had learned that Livingston had had adulterous affairs during the  last 10 years.
Flynt said earlier this year that he wanted to expose  the ``hypocrisy'' of those in Washington who are investigating Clinton  and in October offered $1 million to anyone who could prove they had  had affairs with members of Congress.
He said Friday that this larger  investigation, to be published perhaps as soon as January, would reveal  what he described as indiscretions of several other Republicans.
He  said he had no connection with the White House but that he had hired  an investigative firm based in Washington and made up of former employees  of the FBI and the CIA.
He would not confirm whether the firm is Terry  Lenzner's Investigative Group Inc., which has done work for the president's  private lawyers.
Livingston was unavailable to reporters Friday.
He  spent some time Friday morning sprawled in a chair in the back of  the House chamber, listening to the debate over whether to impeach  Clinton for lying about his own sexual indiscretions.
Several colleagues  knelt at Livingston's knee, whispered to him and patted him on the  back.
He spent most of the day in a private office off the chamber,  avoiding the gauntlet of reporters who lay in wait for him between  the House and his regular office across the street.
The only word  out of his aides was that the Navy had awarded contracts worth millions  of dollars for ships to be built in his Louisiana district at the  Avondale Shipyards.
During Friday's debate, a handful of Democrats  made only oblique allusions to human failures.
For example, Rep. John  Lewis, D-Ga., said: ``Let he that has no sin cast the first stone.
Who, who among us has not sinned?''
But no one said that Livingston's  disclosure or the mild Democratic attempts to exploit it would influence  their votes on impeachment.
Rather, on the House floor and in hallway  chitchat, Livingston's conduct seemed to be the last thing that either  Republicans or Democrats wanted to talk about.
``Bob Livingston is  a first-rate human being,'' said Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., who has  worked closely and sparred with Livingston on the Appropriations Committee,  in an interview.
``I will repeat what the nuns taught me at St. James  a long time ago: We would all be a hell of a lot better off looking  after our own souls rather than trying to evaluate somebody else's.
None of us have any business even having an opinion on it.''
Even  conservative Republicans seemed ready to overlook the disclosure.
``We're not going to say, `Bob, you can't be speaker because you violated  your vows with your wife,''' said Rep. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.
Like  many, including Livingston, Graham distinguished Livingston's conduct  from Clinton's by saying that the president had ``trampled'' on the  legal system whereas Livingston's behavior was strictly private.
Despite  Flynt's claims, many Republicans blamed the Clinton administration  for smearing Livingston, although they offered no evidence.
``This  isn't just happening on its own,'' said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-  Calif.
The raw passions were such that the House Democrats did not to hesitate  to bellow ``You resign!
You resign!''
at Speaker-elect Robert Livingston  when he called from the House floor for President Clinton to quit  the White House in the face of certain impeachment.
Shockingly, stunningly,  Livingston did just that.
He quit in one breathtaking utterance, as  if flicking a trump card onto the heap of impeachment angst festering  before his eyes in the debating chamber.
In his one and only strategem  in leading his fellow House Republicans, Livingston's decision struck  Congress like a verbal bomb.
Stunned Democrats saw their fury vaporized  upon the instant.
They had to stand, almost staggering to their feet,  to join the Republicans in a prolonged, emotional ovation for Livingston  and his undeniable self-sacrifice.
As they stood, the Democrats sensed  Livingston had most suddenly closed a trap on the president and his  defenders.
For, with the impeachment issue set to move to the Senate,  Livingston, whose own marital indiscretions were now before the public  to his obvious misery, chose to show how the question of a political  leader's resignation was very much in play in this tumult-tossed city.
``I must set the example that I hope President Clinton will follow,''  Livingston declared, flabbergasting all attending the impeachment  debate and the nation watching beyond.
Livingston walked off the floor  like the sheriff in some bullet-pocked political ``High Noon,'' discarding  the leadership badge he had wrested from the earlier speaker-casualty,  Newt Gingrich.
In the corridor just beyond, a doorman shouted to a  police officer: ``Livingston just resigned!''
``What?
What?''
came  the reply from the officer, who obviously thought the momentous announcement  would be about Clinton's impeachment, not Livingston's political self-immolation.
Just so, the Democrats, already deep into bone-raw exhaustion after  their long fight to save the president, grasped for bearings.
``It  is a surrender to a developing sexual McCarthyism!''
declared Rep.  Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., a leading presidential defender trying to  rally Democrats around the argument that Livingston should not resign  any more than President Clinton should quit under fire.
But the Republicans  were surging to the fore on the strength of Livingston's announcement,  fighting tears as they rose to salute him as the ultimate political  role model in the grueling impeachment process as it roared into the  final minutes of debate.
``For some it is no longer good enough to  make a mistake, to confirm that mistake and take the consequences  of that mistake,'' said Tom DeLay, the Republican whip, his hands  shaking, his eyes tearing as he addressed the House and sought to  drive the example of Livingston all the way down Pennsylvania Avenue.
honor, duty, integrity  and the truth,'' said DeLay arguing that in one swift blow, Livingston  had demonstrated himself to have been a far better speaker than Clinton  has been a president.
With something of the political elan the president  showed in initiating the Iraq attack as his own impeachment loomed,  House Republicans, battered in public opinion polls, had found a rocket's  red glare of their own.
``I have hurt you all deeply and beg your  forgiveness,'' Livingston told the House, the nation and his family  as he announced retreat.
Only moments before, Democrats openly hissed  the man as Livingston firmly read his own judgment upon the president:  ``Sir, you have done great damage to this nation over the past year.''
Presidential resignation was in order, he continued, and then came  the shouts of ``You resign!
And as Livingston closed  the circle on his career, he stunned the place into a collective breath  of disbelief and somehow almost threatened to reduce the dark historic  issue before the House _ the impeachment of the president _ into a  matter of anticlimax.
``They must not succeed,'' David Bonior, the  Democratic whip said of the Republicans as he was given the task of  refocusing the day on the misdeeds of the president, not the departure  of the speaker.
``We are here to debate impeachment and should not  be distracted from that,'' he declared.
``The only way we can stop  this vicious cycle,'' Bonior cried out from the floor, ``is if we  refuse to give into it, whether it is Bill Clinton or Bob Livingston.''
But the House was still reeling through the frenzied day as the fateful  vote on the presidency approached and the notion of resignation licked  about the capital city like a flame in a forest.
Rep. Bob Livingston, who confessed to his colleagues Thursday night  that he had had adulterous affairs, stunned the House chamber Saturday  morning by saying in the impeachment debate on President Clinton that  he would not serve as speaker and would quit Congress in six months.
He urged the president to follow his example and quit, too.
But at  the White House, where calls for Clinton's resignation are derided  as a Republican strategy, the president sent a spokesman into the  driveway to urge Livingston to reconsider his resignation.
Livingston  stood in the well of the House he has served for two decades and called  on Clinton to resign his office rather than force a trial in the Senate,  drawing boos from his colleagues and cat-calls that he should quit  instead.
He then did just that.
``I must set the example that I hope  President Clinton will follow,'' Livingston announced to a shocked  and silent chamber in an act that left the Republican Party in total  chaos just hours before the vote to impeach Clinton.
The decision  also left the party leaderless on the eve of the opening of the 106th  Congress, when Republicans must govern with one of the narrowest majorities  in history.
Several Republicans, including Rep. Tom DeLay of Texas,  the majority whip, somberly welcomed the news, suggesting it relieved  them of an excruciating embarrassment.
In lauding Livingston's move,  it's  about honor and decency and integrity and the truth, everything we  honor in this country.''
But Democrats said they were aghast, and  many _ including Clinton _ called on Livingston to reconsider his  decision.
``Mr. Livingston's resignation was wrong,'' declared Rep.  Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. ``It is a surrender to a developing sexual  McCarthyism.
Are we going to have a new test if someone wants to run  for public office _ are you now or have you ever been an adulterer?''
He called on the country to distinguish between sins and crimes.
White  House press secretary Joe Lockhart said Clinton was ``disappointed''  at the news of Livingston's plans and wished that he would reconsider.
Lockhart said the president ``firmly believes that the politics of  personal destruction in this town and this country has to come to  an end.''
He reaffirmed that Clinton would not resign, saying: ``The  president is going to do what's in the best interest of the country.
It would be wrong to give in to this insidious politics of personal  destruction.''
Livingston's announced resignation was all the more  stunning for its disclosure in a process that could result in the  president's removal from office.
The speaker is second in line to  the presidency, after the vice president.
Newt Gingrich, the outgoing  speaker, who was driven from the post after Republicans lost five  seats in the November election, technically remains speaker until  Jan. 6, when Livingston's election was to be ratified by the new Congress.
But Gingrich has removed himself from the daily operations of the  House at this extraordinary session and has begun to dismantle his  office.
Livingston's decision was said to be driven in part by the  anger of a group of about a dozen conservatives in his party who were  disillusioned that he had withheld news of his affairs from them.
They had threatened to withhold their votes for him in the election  in January that would formally make him speaker.
He was also concerned  about the pain caused to his family by further disclosures, some members  said.
They added that, not lost on many in his party, was the example  he would set for the president by offering to resign his post now.
DeLay, No. 3 in the House Republican leadership, is expected to fill  the power vacuum at least temporarily, in deed if not in title, while  the party regroups to find a new speaker.
Many members quickly rallied  around Rep. Dennis Hastert of Illinois.
Hastert, one of DeLay's deputy  whips who is well respected among his colleagues, had been promoted  as a candidate for majority leader last month, but never mounted a  campaign.
Rep. Dick Armey of Texas only precariously held on to his  majority-leader post last month and was not considered a likely candidate  for speaker.
He is expected to manage the reorganization, which Republican  leaders have set for Jan. 4.
Livingston met privately with his closest  advisers Friday as the impeachment debate unfolded.
Some of his colleagues  believed he had made a mistake in disclosing Thursday night _ just  as the House was moving into the divisive debate over impeachment  _ that he had ``on occasion strayed from my marriage.''
He told Republican  leaders late Thursday afternoon that Hustler magazine was going to  expose his affairs early next year.
Some leaders urged him to keep  quiet, but his wife, Bonnie, encouraged him to tell his colleagues  immediately, despite the momentous vote that was nearing on the floor.
At that point Thursday night, Roll Call, a newspaper on Capitol Hill,  reported on its Web site that Livingston was going to admit to the  affairs and was going to offer to resign.
In a closed-door meeting  with his fellow Republicans, he did admit to the affairs but made  no offer to step down, receiving three standing ovations instead.
Thursday night, Livingston stated that he would ``not be intimidated  by these efforts'' to exploit his past.
But Friday he removed himself  from public action and that night drew his closest advisers into his  confidence.
His aides said Saturday that they had no clue what was  he was contemplating, and few other members were aware of his plans.
Asked if he had any advance word, Rep. J.C. Watts of Oklahoma, a newly  elected member of the Republican leadership, said: ``I had no idea.''
Asked if there had been internal party pressure on Livingston to resign,  Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky., said: ``I didn't know about it if there  was,'' but added, ``There were some members who were critical of it.''
As the leaders tried Saturday to hold the party together on and off  the House floor, most Republicans stuck to their prepared scripts  on the floor in favor of impeaching the president.
But some began  expressing their anguish.
Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., who admitted to  his own adulterous affair earlier this year, said after Livingston's  resignation: ``Those of us who are sinners must feel wretched today.
Something is going on repeatedly that has to be stopped, and that  is a confusion between private acts of infidelity and public acts.''
To much applause, Hyde declared: ``Congress has no business intruding  into private acts.''
Republicans, indeed Livingston himself, had made  this same distinction between Clinton's sexual indiscretions and Livingston's,  saying that Clinton lied about his private acts and therefore abused  the legal system and his powers.
As Livingston said in his statement  Thursday: ``These indiscretions were not with employees on my staff  and I have never been asked to testify under oath about them.''
Democrats  hoped that Livingston's seemingly drastic action would wake up the  House to how poisoned the atmosphere had become and might prompt Republicans  to reconsider the impeachment of Clinton.
Rep. Paul Kanjorski, D-Pa.,  said, ``We are now starting to offer up sacrificial lambs to whatever  terrible disease this is.''
In a stirring speech applauded even by  some Republicans, Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader,  praised Livingston as a ``worthy, good and honorable man'' and said  his resignation was a grave mistake.
``It's a terrible capitulation  to the negative political forces that are consuming our political  system and our country,'' Gephardt said, adding that the events of  the last few days showed ``life imitates farce.''
``We need to stop  destroying imperfect people at an unattainable altar of public morality,''  he said, urging his colleagues to ``step back from the abyss'' and  reject resignation, impeachment and ``vicious self-righteousness.''
The only thing certain now is uncertainty.
The smart money shouts  that President Clinton will never resign, and he concurs.
The smart  money argues that the Senate could not muster the 67 votes that would  be needed to remove the wounded president from office, which would  require the defection of 12 Democrats if all the Republicans stand  against him.
The smart money insists that someone will cut a deal  to end all this.
Maybe so.
But the smarter money whispers, ``Remember.''
Remember that everyone in Washington, including Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill.,  chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said the House would never, ever,  treat impeachment as a partisan issue.
Wrong.
Remember that all the  pundits predicted Democratic losses in the midterm elections, and  when the opposite happened, they said impeachment was dead.
Twice  wrong.
And remember that in the New Year the nation may travel down  a road it has never traveled before.
One other president, Andrew Johnson  of Tennessee, has been tried by the Senate, of course.
But that happened  in a different country _one with only 37 states, with primitive communications,  with a simple economy based largely on agriculture, with only minimal  commitments abroad.
In the toxic politics of century's end in Washington,  the inconceivable has become the commonplace.
The wholly unanticipated  announcement Saturday morning by Rep. Robert Livingston, R-La., that  he would not serve as speaker and would resign from Congress, following  his equally unanticipated disclosure on Thursday night of several  extramarital affairs, only deepened the capital's profound sense of  insecurity.
The deadly sweep of the scythe of neo-puritanism appears  unstoppable, at least for the moment, and Livingston's forthcoming  resignation will increase the pressure on the president to do likewise.
``You've set before us an example,'' the leader of House Republican  majority, Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, told Livingston Saturday.
``The  example is that principle comes before power.''
The Democrats made  the opposite point, arguing that the Livingston case showed how very  wrong it was to savage people for personal pecaddillos.
One transcendently  important thing remains the same: Although surrounded by judicial  trappings and presided over by the chief justice, trials of presidents  are political processes, with power residing in the hands of elective  politicians.
In addition to narrow legal issues of guilt or innocence,  they can weigh considerations of party, the nation's future, their  own individual political well-being and almost anything else they  care to weigh in reaching a verdict.
The longer they took, the more  numerous the call for resignation would probably be.
Even before Saturday's  epochal roll-calls, four of ten Americans interviewed in the latest  New York Times/CBS News Poll said they thought the president should  step down if he were to be indicted, despite the fact that a large  majority voiced disapproval of the impeachment proceedings.
What lies  behind that seeming contradiction, of course, is the fear that Clinton,  and the country with him, would be incapacitated.
No one took Andrew  Johnson very seriously after he escaped conviction by a single vote.
But Clinton, a man of powerful will whose whole life has been a series  of comebacks, has already embarked on an effort to show that he can  do the nation's business.
Richard Nixon clawed his way back to respectability  after leaving the White House when no one thought he could; Clinton  intends to re-establish his authority while still in office.
He has  one great advantage: Two-thirds of the American public continues to  voice its approval of his political stewardship, whatever it thinks  of him as a man.
The president will press hard, despite his much-reduced  leverage, for a deal on censure.
Indeed, in as fine a piece of political  irony as one could ask for, he has already sought to enlist former  Sen. Bob Dole, the Republican he defeated in 1996, as an emissary  to the Senate majority.
The numbers are not unpromising: with the  help of six Republicans, the 45 Democrats could end the trial at any  time and pass a censure resolution that the House would surely take  up.
There are enough Republican moderates and sometime party-buckers  to make that a plausible target.
But the Republican leader in the  Senate, Trent Lott of Mississippi, who has made his unwillingness  to take the president's word plainly evident in recent days, is determined  to fight such a trial-aborting arrangement.
It is clear that Clinton's  reputation has been stained forever, no matter what the Senate does.
The spot will not out.
History will remember this man who so coveted  a glowing legacy not as an impresario of economic growth, not as the  Moses who pointed the way to the 21st century, but as the second president  ever to be impeached, if not as the first to be ousted.
That harsh  word, ``impeachment,'' will cling to his name as surely as ``Teapot  Dome'' clings to Harding's and ``Depression'' to Hoover's.
But he  is not alone in having suffered grievous injury in the political avalanche  that was shaken loose by the disclosure of Clinton's sexual relationship  with a former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky.
The Republicans'  public support has shriveled to 40 percent in the new Times/CBS News  poll, its lowest level in 14 years, and it could go lower once the  fact of impeachment sinks in.
Journalists are seen by many as jackals,  indifferent to whatever personal suffering or national angst they  may cause as long as they get the story, and none too concerned about  accuracy.
In fact, the whole political culture of the 1990s, with  its criminalization of political conduct and its seeming indifference  to important national and international issues, has fallen into disrepute  with ordinary Americans.
The last week seemed to crystallize the long-term  decline in political civility.
Republicans called Clinton a liar,  even as he was committing American pilots to the skies over Iraq,  and Democrats accused their rivals of conducting a political lynching  or a political coup d'etat.
Bipartisanship may have been the biggest  victim of all.
Party lines on Saturday's rolls calls held as firm  as leg irons.
Almost all of the Republicans who opposed impeachment  did so not exclusively on legal principle but at least partly because  the Democratic majority in Rep.  Constance Morella's district in the Maryland suburbs of Washington,  for example, and the gratitude of Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., for Clinton's  peacemaking in Ireland.
It is hard to see who has emerged from it  with reputation enhanced, except perhaps Hillary Rodham Clinton, staunch  in the face of deception.
If some of the threats and dire predictions  uttered by House Democrats in recent days are to be taken at face  value, the nation is entering upon an Era of Bad Feelings, the polar  opposite of a second Era of Good Feelings, similar to that of the  1820s, that Clinton had hoped to preside over.
Rep. Tom Sawyer, D-Ohio,  compared Clinton on Friday to Sir Thomas More, executed for treason  in 1535 because of his religious beliefs.
He quoted More's words as  an admonition for today: ``What you have hunted me for is not my actions  but for the thoughts of my heart.
It is a long road you have opened.
God help the statesmen who walk your road.''
But amidst all the loose  talk about permanent damage to this institution or that, remember:  Things change with startling speed in modern American politics, and  the institutions of American government have proved extraordinarily  resilient.
President Nixon, it was almost universally agreed in 1974,  had weakened the American presidency for many decades to come.
Nobody  said that after eight years under Ronald Reagan, and that was only  15 years later.
The New York Times said in an editorial for Sunday, Dec. 20: The Republicans'  drive for a partisan impeachment based soley on party-line voting  power rather than any sense of proportion produced an unexpected sideshow  in the resignation of Rep. Bob Livingston from his role as future  speaker of the House.
Analysts on both sides of the struggle over  President Clinton's future will point to Livingston's downfall as  evidence of a generalized breakdown in legislative civility on Capitol  Hill.
Democrats will see a moral symmetry, depicting Livingston as  a victim of the sexual puritanism he was wielding against Clinton.
But the one thing that no one should fall for is Livingston's invitation  to use his resignation as a model for resolving the crisis at the  White House.
Livingston's statement rocked Congress, but it should  not shake the foundations of the somber constitutional process now  underway.
By lying under oath, Clinton made it necessary for the House  to consider impeachment.
The evidence convinced most Americans that  the president should be censured, but not removed from office.
Livingston  allowed GOP partisans to block censure in the House.
The result is  that after Saturday's expected impeachment vote, after Livingston's  unexpected announcement, the mission of the Senate remains the same.
It must resist those Republicans who want to short-circuit the constitutional  process with demands for resignation, and it must use the upcoming  Senate trial as a forum for finding a censure commensurate with the  president's personal dishonesty and offenses against the law.
These  require stern punishment but not removal from office.
In undertaking  this work, the Senate must also reassure the American people that  a decisive wisdom at the core of our messy-looking political system  has not melted down.
In such distempered times, this is a shining  opportunity for the Senate.
Its members pride themselves on being  the Republic's fire wall against presidential excess and the popular  or partisan passions that sometimes seize the House of Representatives.
No one can predict whether Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott will  rise to the defining challenge of his career or whether he will surrender  to the mean streak he acquired during 16 grumpy years as a minority  member of the House.
We would like to see Lott reach for a starring  role in history.
Lott's growling response to questions about censure  is not encouraging.
He may be right that the Constitution requires  him to convene a trial, but nothing in that document prevents him  from speedily guiding the Senate toward censure negotiations.
Indeed,  45 Democrats plus 6 cooperating Republicans  _ can end the Senate trial at any time, clearing the way for introduction  of the kind of censure resolution suggested by former Sen. Bob Dole.
In an intriguing report on NBC, Tim Russert described discussions  among a bipartisan group of senators about a censure that would involve  some form of presidential confession, a fine and a joint congressional  request that Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr not prosecute Clinton  in the courts.
If Lott refuses to allow a bipartisan search for censure,  the burden will fall upon respected members like Joseph Lieberman  on the Democratic side and Orrin Hatch for the Republicans.
Through  cooperation, they can guide the Senate toward a punishment that fixes  Clinton in history as a president who lied under oath, but avoids  the taint of partisan vengeance associated with the House impeachment  vote.
The Senate's historic reputation for prudence requires it to  find appropriate punishment for a personally weak president who has  damaged the rule of law, but not threatened the stability of the government.
Rejecting a last-minute Democratic attempt to soften its action to  censure, the House of Representatives moved to impeach President William  Jefferson Clinton for perjury on Saturday and to call on the Senate  to try him, convict him and remove him from office.
But even before  the vote, Republicans pressed another line of attack, demanding Clinton's  resignation.
Rep. Robert Livingston, nominated for speaker last month  by his party, startled the House when he announced he would not run  for speaker and would resign from the House after 21 years of service.
He urged the president to ``heal the wounds that you have created.
You, sir, may resign your post.''
Angry Democrats booed and shouted,  ``You resign!''
Livingston continued, ``I can only challenge you in  such fashion if I am willing to heed my own words.''
Apologizing again  for extramarital affairs revealed two days ago, he said, ``I believe  I had it in me to do a fine job.
But I cannot do that job or be the  kind of leader that I would like to be under current circumstances.''
Then he bolted from the House chamber, nearly knocking reporters and  members down.
(The House voted 228-206 to approve the first article  of impeachment, accusing Clinton of committing perjury before a federal  grand jury.
The vote was announced at 1:24 p.m. EST, leaving the 42nd  president to face trial in the Senate on whether he should be removed  from office.)
Clinton rejected the advice immediately.
His spokesman,  Joe Lockhart, said, ``The president has no intention of resigning.''
By calling on Livingston to reconsider, the president argued more  broadly against resignation under fire.
Perhaps speaking to both cases,  Lockhart said, ``It would be wrong to give in to this insidious politics  of personal destruction.''
Unless Clinton changes course, this would  be only the second impeachment of a president in the 209-year history  of the Republic, and the first since Andrew Johnson was acquitted  in 1868.
Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, has  insisted that no bargaining over censure can prevent it from starting.
But the Senate could halt a trial later as part of a deal.
Considering  the degree of partisanship displayed Saturday, assembling the two-thirds  majority required under the Constitution for conviction is most unlikely.
Sixty-seven votes would be required, and there are only 55 Republicans  in the Senate, along with 45 Democrats.
Four articles of impeachment  before the House charged Clinton with perjury in lying about his affair  with Monica Lewinsky to a federal grand jury here on Aug. 17.
He was  also charged with perjury in the Paula Jones sexual harassment suit,  obstruction of justice and abuse of power.
The Republican argument,  over and over, was that Clinton had lied in denying having sexual  relations with Ms. Lewinsky.
Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, the majority  leader, said, ``A nation of laws cannot be ruled by a person who breaks  the law.''
Rep. Nancy Johnson of Connecticut said: ``There can be  no justice without the truth.
That is just profoundly so, and that  is why perjury matters.''
Rep. Gerald Kleczka of Wisconsin began the  Democrats' arguments by saying, ``What the president did was wrong,  both personally and morally, but his acts did not threaten our democracy  and thus do not rise to the level of impeachable offenses as defined  by our founding fathers in our Constitution.''
Rep. Charles Schumer,  New York's senator-elect, said: ``The rule of law requires that the  punishment fit the crime.
Allow us to vote for censure.''
Saturday's  votes were the penultimate step in the most serious conflict between  Congress and a president since Richard M. Nixon resigned in the face  of impeachment and certain conviction on Aug. 9, 1974.
But while that  case spun out from a 1972 break-in at Democratic headquarters in the  Watergate complex, this one began with a murky land deal in Arkansas  in 1978.
Through the efforts of Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel  under the law enacted in the wake of Watergate, the investigation  spread to examine Clinton's affair with a White House intern.
All  year it has preoccupied the capital despite an immense disconnect  with public opinion; since the scandal became public in January, polls  have shown that the public opposed impeachment and wanted the inquiry  brought to an end.
Even on Friday night, after a 13-hour debate, a  CBS News Poll of 548 people showed that only 38 percent wanted their  representative to vote for impeachment; 58 percent wanted a no vote.
The conflict now enters uncharted seas, since the Nixon resignation  cut the matter short and the Johnson trial occurred in a different  America, with no nuclear weapons or cable television or public opinion  polls.
But the capital was still rife with confident speculation.
Some guessed, or hoped, that the results of the recent poll, which  showed increases in support for resignation as a way to spare the  nation a trial in which Ms. Lewinsky and Linda Tripp would be star  witnesses, would weaken Clinton's resolve.
Others thought the Republicans,  seeing dismal numbers in polls about their party's standing in the  United States, would be the first to blink.
With a majority in the  Senate, they have the power to end a trial at any time after the Senate  receives notice of impeachment on the day it convenes, Jan. 6, or  the next day.
But while Clinton has focused on the polls, and the  CBS News survey showed that 64 percent still approve of his handling  of his job as president, resignation could almost immediately subject  him to criminal prosecution.
And Republicans have steadfastly ignored  the polls all year, and confronted them directly on Saturday.
Representative  J.C. Watts of Oklahoma, newly elected as chairman of the Republican  caucus, said: ``What's popular isn't always right.
You say polls are  against this.
Polls measure changing feelings, not steadfast principle.
Polls would have rejected the Ten Commandments.
Polls would have embraced  slavery and ridiculed women's rights.
``You say we must draw this  to a close.
I say we must draw a line between right and wrong, not  with a tiny fine line of an executive fountain pen, but with the big  fat lead of a No. 2 pencil.
And we must do it so every kid in America  can see it.
The point is not whether the president can prevail, but  whether truth can prevail.''
Last weekend, when the Judiciary Committee  recommended the four articles of impeachment, Clinton's side still  hoped to prevail with the help of 20 to 30 Republican moderates who  were uncommitted.
As the week wore on, almost all of them broke against  the president.
One who did not, Rep. Christopher Shays of Connecticut,  said Saturday: ``After Judge Starr's report to Congress in September,  and his presentation to the Judiciary Committee in November, I concluded  that impeachable offenses were not proven, and that the proven offenses  were not impeachable.
``But the president's continued failure to come  to grips with his actions, the sincerity and arguments of members  of the Judiciary Committee from both sides of the aisle, the change  of heart and conviction by members on my side of the aisle who originally  opposed impeachment and who now support it, and the strong and powerful  opinion of so many of my constituents who oppose my position and who  wanted the president impeached caused me to rethink my position.''
He added: ``Yesterday morning, before I visited with the president,  I concluded that my original position was the correct one, for me.
I believe that the impeachable offenses have not been proven, and  that the proven offenses are not impeachable.''
But Rep. Tom DeLay  of Texas, who has led the Republican effort to force Clinton from  office, dismissed his and other arguments as moral relativism.
He  began by praising Livingston: ``There is no greater American in my  mind, at least today, than Bob Livingston, because he understood what  this debate was all about.
It was about honor and decency and integrity  and the truth; everything that we honor in this country.
It was also  a debate about relativism vs. absolute truth.''
He continued, ``The  president's defenders have said that the president is morally reprehensible,  that he is reckless, that he has violated the trust of the American  people, lessened their esteem for the office of president and dishonored  but that doesn't  rise to the level of impeachment.''
Rep. Jose Serrano of New York  said, ``My constituents don't hate Bill Clinton; they love him and  they're praying for him right at this very moment.
You may have the  votes today to impeach him, but you don't have the American people.
And let me tell you something, I grew up in the public housing projects  of the South Bronx.
I can see a bunch of bullies when I see them.
The bullies get theirs, and you're going to get yours, too.
Rep. Henry  Hyde of Illinois, the Judiciary Committee chairman who brought the  charges to the House floor, said the Congress and the American people  needed to distinguish between private acts of infidelity and public  acts by public officials.
In Clinton's case, he said, the House was  dealing with ``a serial violator of the oath who is the chief law-enforcement  officer.''
He said that the Senate could be ``innovative and creative''  in deciding how best to punish Clinton, but that the House was bound  by the Constitution to move ahead with articles of impeachment.
``Justice  is so important to the most humble among us,'' Hyde said.
``Equal  justice under the law _ that's what we're fighting for.''
Democrats,  reading from the same Constitution, voiced diametrically opposite  conclusions, and attacked the fairness of the proceedings that culminated  Saturday.
``We're losing track of distinction between sins and crimes,''  said Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. ``We're lowering the standards of  impeachment.
What the president has done is not a great and dangerous  offense to the republic.''
Democrats also criticized Republicans for  impeaching Clinton at the very moment that U.S. troops waged war against  Iraq.
``Six days before Christmas our troops are in battle, and a  lame-duck Congress is rushing to overthrow the commander in chief,''  said Rep. David Bonior of Michigan, the second-ranking House Democrat.
The ghosts of Watergate hung over the House chamber.
One Republican  cited the parallels between the charges the House Judiciary Committee  brought against Nixon 25 years ago, and the counts that the same committee  brought to the House floor for affirmation on Saturday.
``Nixon cheated.
He cheated the electoral system,'' said Rep. Lindsey Graham, a South  Carolina Republican on the Judiciary Committee.
And now, Graham said,  the full House is voting to impeach Clinton ``because we believe he  committed crimes that result in cheating our judicial system.''
But  most of the day's debate was firmly rooted in Clinton's effort to  conceal his sexual affair with Monica Lewinsky.
Rep. Bob Barr, a Georgia  Republican on the Judiciary Committee who is one of Clinton's fiercest  critics, held up copies of the U.S. Criminal Code, the Judiciary Committee's  report on the impeachment inquiry and, finally, the Constitution,  in defending his decision to impeach the president.
``Today, we rely  on the three pillars of our society: the law itself, evidence and  the Constitution,'' said Barr.
``There is no joy in upholding the  law,'' Watts said.
``If we cannot see lawlessness, our children cannot  recognize it.
How can we tell our children honesty is the best policy  when we don't demand it as a policy?''
But Democrats assailed the  very premise on which the Republican majority built its impeachment  case against Clinton.
Rep. John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the ranking  Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, assailed the four articles of  impeachment, count by count, as unfounded by evidence and failing  to rise to impeachment.
He saved his most savage scorn for the final  count, abuse of power.
``The majority has simply tried to dress up  the perjury counts in the Watergate abuse-of-power language,'' Conyers  said.
In the end, the will of the people meant nothing.
Bob Livingston couldn't  have been clearer about that.
His mind and the minds of his followers  were closed.
Even as the bombing continued in Iraq and Americans from  coast to coast were clamoring for an alternative to impeachment, even  as his own adulterous past was being flushed out in the grotesque  invasions of privacy that inevitably followed the relentlessly prurient  pursuit of the president, even as the country began to contemplate  the destructive effects of a lengthy and bitter Senate trial, the  speaker-designate arrogantly and stupidly proclaimed: ``Let us disregard  the outside influences.''
The radicals on the Hill would hear nothing  but the echoes of their own fanaticism.
Impeach!
And that  continued even after the stunning announcement Saturday morning that  Livingston would quit the House.
Dismayed by the partisan stampede,  Dick Gephardt, the Democratic leader, warned during the impeachment  debate on Friday: ``In your effort to uphold the Constitution, you  are trampling the Constitution.''
David Bonior, the Democratic whip,  said: ``This is wrong.
It is unfair.
It is unjust.
At a time when  events in the world and the challenges at home demand that we stand  united, censure is the one solution that can bring us together.
To  my colleagues across the aisle, I say let go of your obsession.
Listen  to the American people.''
But the voices of reason would not be heard.
Livingston and his right-wing colleagues, the Tom DeLays, the Henry  Hydes, the Bob Barrs, were on a mission of destruction and would not  be denied.
Ordinary Americans could cry out all they wanted.
They  could protest and demonstrate, send faxes and E-mails.
It didn't matter.
The right was on the march and democracy was on the run.
Rep. Thomas  Barrett, a Democrat from Wisconsin, tried to remind his Republican  colleagues that the Constitution ``does not allow you to remove a  president from office because you can't stand him.''
He was, of course,  ignored.
The Republicans will pay a huge price for their brazen, utterly  partisan attempt to drag a president from the White House in defiance  of the will of the people.
The party's contempt for the voters was  arrogantly but quite adequately summed up by Alan Simpson, the former  senator from Wyoming, who said: ``The attention span of Americans  is which movie is coming out next month and whether the quarterly  report on their stock will change.''
If the voters are the dopes that  Mr. Simpson thinks they are, then come 2000 everyone will have forgotten  there was an impeachment crisis.
But Rep. Robert Menendez, D-N.J.,  was probably closer to the truth when he said, ``I warn my colleagues  that you will reap the bitter harvest of the unfair partisan seeds  you sow today.''
One of the many strange events of the past couple  of weeks was the way in which virtually all of the previously undecided  Republicans, the so-called moderates, surrendered their independence  and lined up like lackeys to follow the right wing's lead.
All proclaimed  loudly that they were voting on principle, but in fact it was an exercise  in mass cowardice, exemplified by Rep. John McHugh of upstate New  York.
McHugh announced on Tuesday that he would vote for impeachment.
But if his decision was based on principle, he had an odd way of expressing  it.
The Washington Post said McHugh appeared to have no stomach for  a Senate conviction or removal of the president from office.
Of his  colleagues in the Senate, McHugh said, ``I, for one, would accept,  even welcome, their mercy.''
In other words, let the Senate do the  heavy constitutional lifting.
McHugh may have wished out loud for  mercy, but he clearly was too frightened of the right-wingers in the  House to cast a compassionate vote himself.
The GOP can no longer  conceal that it is a party of extremists, of right-wing absolutists,  a party out of step with the political and cultural orientation of  most Americans.
Bob Livingston may be leaving, but his arrogant comment  can still serve as his party's slogan.
``Let us disregard the outside  influences.''
Let us disregard the people.
It has gotten to the point where drastic action may be necessary.
You know those movies about Ebola virus outbreaks, where the guys  in sterile suits come in, seal off the area and completely irradiate  it?
They may have to do that to Washington.
Just eradicate us and  start from scratch.
In a few, short days we have managed to make the  terms ``surreal,'' ``bizarre,'' ``split-screen America,'' ``shocking,''  ``runaway train'' and ``politics of personal destruction'' useless  cliches.
We no longer govern here.
We just roll around in the gutter  wondering who's next in this sexual auto-de-fe.
On Saturday morning,  we had the surreal, shocking, bizarre, split-screen image of Bob Livingston,  the speaker-elect, stepping down after his marital infidelities were  revealed.
``We are all pawns on the chessboard,'' Livingston said,  before asking the president to resign and then resigning himself.
Livingston's rabid pursuit of the president, even as he hoped to hide  his own dirty laundry, made him an avatar of hypocrisy in a capital  rotting with hypocrisy.
On Thursday night, when Livingston first confessed  his sins to Republicans in hopes of keeping his hold on his post,  his colleagues gave him a standing ovation.
And after he made his  surprise announcement Saturday, the Republicans gave him another ovation  and stepped up to deliver encomiums to their lost speaker.
``One's  self-esteem gets utterly crushed at times like this,'' sighed Henry  Hyde, another tormenter of the president who also had to admit that  he had succumbed to temptation.
Tom DeLay, the jagged-edge exterminator  who may next-up in the speaker roundelay, was choked up, praising  the greatness of Livingston for understanding that this was ``a debate  about relativism versus absolute truth.''
What could be more relative  than a Republican who has hidden a lot of affairs trying to impeach  a president for lying about his?
Spurred by Larry Flynt's bounty for  sinnuendo, the city was braced for more craziness.
The Ship of Fools  reached cruising speed on Friday evening, when we had the frightening  scene of Republicans so crazed with hatred of the president that they  were railroading through an impeachment even though the United States  was at war with Iraq, even though the House chamber was mostly empty,  even though Republicans were huddled in a glass house on the issue  of sex and lies, and even though the White House was still pitching  a tent and planning sleigh rides for a Winter Wonderland press party  on Monday.
(The White House was keeping the journalists quarantined  outside this year, but encouraged them to bring their kids.
To soak  up some of that cozy family atmosphere, no doubt.
Why are the Republicans  so obsessed, when everyone in his right mind agrees that impeachment  is an outlandishly over-the-top punishment for Clinton and a self-destructive  course for the country?
Because they genuinely hate the president.
They think he's a dishonest, immoral, issue-stealing, selfish child  of the '60s.
They don't think they're going to pay a political price  for this, and if they do, they don't care.
It might be a great time  to see a lot of combovers, but it's not a great time to see a lot  of stature.
The House debate was not history.
It was just a more hideous  version of ``The McLaughlin Group.''
While Republicans tried to draw  the distinction that Clinton had perjured himself, they ignored that  the president had been lured by the Starr-Jones attorney team into  testifying on Monica Lewinsky.
Ordinarily one would feel sorry for  Livingston.
But the Republicans have brought this sexual doomsday  machine on themselves by focusing so single-mindedly on Clinton's  sex life.
The Republicans were so determined to do their high-tech  lynching that they engaged in wacky role reversals.
Many Republican  hawks argued that Bill Clinton should not be bombing Saddam, claiming  the timing was suspicious, even though they had hammered him for not  bombing five weeks ago.
In an incredibly unseemly display, Trent Lott,  the majority leader, and former Bush national security adviser Brent  Scowcroft and Bush Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger chimed  in on the attack.
There's too much hate here.
And I hate it.
``We are here to debate impeachment and should not be distracted from  that,'' the minority whip, Rep. David Bonior, Democrat of Michigan,  said during Saturday's House debate, in what leaped out as an impossible  goal.
It would have taken a kaleidoscopic television screen to capture  the constantly shifting images competing for center stage: impeachment,  Iraq, the resignation of Rep. Robert Livingston, the response from  the White House.
The months leading up to the impeachment of President  Clinton had become a series of televised anticlimaxes, but the hours  before the vote made up for that lack of drama.
There were hardly  enough shorthand terms or split screens to cover the activity.
All  the networks and cable channels carried the moment that unexpectedly  set the tone, as Livingston, a Louisiana Republican, announced during  the debate that he would not become House speaker.
The commentators  had been set to carry the congressional ratification of the inevitable  vote, but suddenly the most plugged-in reporters were caught off guard.
As Tim Russert said to Tom Brokaw on NBC, ``Tom, knock us all over.''
In the echo chamber that television news so often becomes, the shared  mantra had been weightier in early morning.
``For only the second  time in American history'' a president would be impeached, went the  standard line.
Yet despite all the pundits speculating and politicians  telegraphing every move, no one had hinted at the Livingston resignation.
The announcement was, as Brokaw put it, at least partly ``a political  ploy,'' and the repercussions were immediate.
Reporters began gathering  word from Capitol Hill about candidates for the speaker's job, and  the conversation moved to the next stage of the political tug of war.
The Republicans used Livingston's resignation to say that the president  should resign, too; the Democrats immediately countered with the idea  that the president would stay and that Livingston should as well.
That led to one of the less-expected split screens of the day, and  it was not a bad choice.
While Congress was debating, CNN showed anti-aircraft  fire in Baghdad in one box.
In the other, Joe Lockhart, Clinton's  press secretary, stood in the White House driveway telling reporters  that the president would like Livingston to reconsider his decision.
There was more stateliness in the House than television usually offers,  and one reason was purely visual.
``Keep in mind that we do not control  the picture,'' Dan Rather said on CBS, explaining that the television  cameras in Congress are provided by the House, not the individual  networks.
There was no way to roam and zoom in for reaction shots,  as at a political convention.
But the sense of history and decorum  didn't last long at CBS.
At noon, before the vote, CBS went to a football  game, becoming the only network to leave the news coverage.
CBS' corporate  decision to try to have it both ways meant that Rather would break  in with updates from Washington.
``I'll see you very soon,'' he said  as he signed off the complete coverage, looking like a trouper.
But  he was in a position no news anchor should have been in on this day.
He later announced impeachment votes on a split screen with the football  game in progress in the upper part of the screen.
On the other networks  and cable channels, the vote itself literally happened in the background.
As TV screens toted up the numbers of the electronically-cast vote,  members of Congress milled around and chatted on the floor.
Even the  brief Democratic walkout after a motion to consider censure was defeated  was thoroughly forecast.
As the Democrats straggled down the steps  of Congress, it looked curiously undramatic on television, though  it probably made a better still photograph once they were all in place.
And while the votes were in progress, the jockeying for the speaker's  job heated up.
``We already have a presumptive leader,'' Gwen Ifill  of NBC News said in midafternoon, naming Rep. Dennis Hassert, R-Ill.,  who had also been cited by the other networks as a likely candidate.
If the political and military action had not intruded, it might have  been more obvious that the debate on the House floor sent a message  about vast divisions in politics and morality, signaling how deep  a cultural fissure this crisis has opened.
The impeachment, said Rep.  Tom DeLay, R-Texas, was ``a debate about relativism vs. absolute truth.''
Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., contended that Congress had lost the  ``distinction between sins and crimes,'' and argued against the ``sexual  McCarthyism'' that has become prominent.
And against the backdrop  of the revelations of adultery that led to Livingston's resignation,  Rep. Dick Gephardt, the minority leader, declared ``the politics of  personal destruction has to end.''
But as all the jabbering and political  posturing continued, as reporters raced to cover the president's statement  about the impeachment and the latest briefings from the Pentagon,  there was little time to focus on the profound cultural message beneath  those rhetorical flourishes.
NASA and the Russian Space Agency readied the first part of an international space station for launch from Baikonur base.
They decided not to change the orbit of the Zarya module as Russia had requested.
Zarya's Nov. 20 launch was a success.
The Zarya module orbited Earth for 2 weeks before a rendezvous with U.S. shuttle Endeavor to join it to the Unity module.
It was tweaked and working well.
It will serve as a space tugboat.
The first 2 building blocks of the international space station were successfully joined by Endeavor astronauts in the shuttle's open cargo bay.
Endeavor astronauts made 2 of 3 planned spacewalks to work on the space station modules.
Russia launched the first piece of the international space station into orbit a year after the originally scheduled date.
The launch follows a last minute Russian request to change the orbit of the space station to put it closer to Mir.
This request was set aside.
Two weeks later, the U.S. carried the Unity chamber into orbit.
U.S. astronauts aboard the Endeavor shuttle then joined the Unity chamber to the Russian Zarya control module.
The resulting 7 story structure appeared to be a perfect fit.
In a subsequent second space walk, the astronauts were to install antennas on the Unity chamber as well as to attempt to unjam a Russian antenna.
After a year's delay Russia launched the first unit of the international space station, then pushed it to a higher orbit.
Zarya will provide propulsion, power, and comms.
US shuttle Endeavour made a blind docking with Zarya.
Two spacewalks made electrical connections with Unity, which will serve as a passageway, attached its antennas and attempted to open a stuck Zarya antenna.
A Russian cost-cutting proposal to orbit the station closer to Mir jointly vetoed.
Russia promised to destroy Mir but now wants to extend its life.
Russia sold early research time on the station to NASA to pay construction costs but claims the management lead for 1st 5 years.
Jerry Ross and James Newman spacewalked to attach antennas to Unity, the American half of the first stage of the 16-nation space station.
Unity will be a connecting passageway for other modules.
The other portion of the fledgling station, the Russian- built and launched Zarya module, will provide power and propulsion to the facility.
The successful launch of Zarya, which had been delayed over a year due to funding woes, was hailed by the Russian Space Agency head as proof that the Russian space industry "is perfectly able to fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station".
Russia is scheduled to launch the crew module next year.
Russian space experts were making final preparations Thursday at the  Baikonur rocket base to launch the first component of a multibillion  dollar international space station after a year of delay.
Built by  a Russian company and to be launched atop a Russian booster rocket,  the 24-ton Zarya (Sunrise) control and cargo module is a U.S.-funded  component of the station.
It will serve as a space tugboat in the  early stages of the project, providing propulsion, power and communications.
The unmanned launch, set for 9:40 Moscow time (0640 GMT) Friday from  Baikonur in Kazakhstan, has been delayed for one year mainly because  of the cash-strapped Russian space agency's failure to complete another  part of the station.
``After years of discussing, planning and replanning,  we are about to launch hardware,'' Gretchen McClain, deputy associate  administrator for the new station, said at a news conference earlier  this week.
``We are ready to begin a project that will bring us into  the millennium with women and men living and working in space permanently.''
Russian officials added their traditional note of superstition.
``It  is not in the Russian tradition to preface a launch with ... some  advance statements.
I would like to knock on wood, which is rather  common in the Russian tradition,'' said Alexander Krasnov, a deputy  chief of Russian Space Agency's manned flight department.
The station,  involving 16 nations with the United States and Russia playing the  biggest roles, will consist of more than 100 elements that will take  45 assembly flights to complete.
It is due to be completed by 2004.
The station will weigh 500 tons (more than a million pounds) and is  expected to cost at least dlrs 40 billion, with the United States  planning to pay dlrs 21 billion.
It will serve as an orbital home  for visiting astronauts and cosmonauts for up to 20 years.
Zarya is  to fly alone for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space  shuttle Endeavor, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity  connecting module.
The shuttle crew will attach the two modules together  in three space walks, using the Endeavors robot arm.
The 12.4-meter  (41.2-feet) Zarya holds more than 6 tons of fuel in its 16 tanks and  is capable of flying independently for 430 days.
Its control system  consists of 36 thrusters and two large engines for major orbital changes.
It will be launched by a three-stage heavy-lift Proton booster rocket  that would put Zarya into orbit in less than 10 minutes after the  blastoff.
In the ensuing days, the ground controllers will gradually  adjust its orbit in preparation for the meeting with Endeavor.
The  space station will not be inhabitable until early 2000, following  the launch of a Russian crew module which is set to blast off next  July or August.
Russia has repeatedly failed to meet deadlines for  constructing the crew module, putting the whole project behind schedule.
Having lost hope of getting the promised government funds, the Russian  space agency has sold its early research time on the station to NASA  for dlrs 60 million to complete the segment.
Agency chief Yuri Koptev  said that taking part in the new station is the only hope for the  beleaguered Russian space industry, whose funding has collapsed since  the Soviet collapse.
The project would allow Russia to keep up to  80,000 jobs over the next 15 years.
Koptev assailed some Russian space  engineers who continue to insist that more money should be put into  Russia's own battered 12-year old Mir space station to extend its  lifetime instead of committing more funds to the new space outpost.
``The choice mustn't be determined by emotions.
Some people are glued  to one thing (Mir) and don't care about the rest,'' Koptev said at  a recent news conference.
``We must proceed from the understanding  of what would take us into the future, allow us to preserve our industry.''
The Russian Khrunichev company has earned over dlrs 200 million for  building Zarya, whose design was based on earlier Soviet spacecraft,  including some of the Mir's six modules.
A Russian Proton booster rocket carried the first part of the international  space station into orbit Friday, heralding the start of a new era  in international space colonization.
Russian space officials and others  cheered as ground control announced that the capsule had separated  from its booster rocket and reached its first orbit at about 200 kilometers  (125 miles) above the Earth.
``Success,'' shouted one exultant official  some 10 minutes after the giant rocket blasted off and entered orbit.
The heads of the space agencies of 16 nations participating in the  project watched the lift-off from a distance of about 5 kilometers  (3 miles).
Strategic Rocket Forces troops who had prepared the launch  were in underground bunkers to avoid poisoning by the highly toxic  rocket fuel.
Russian and U.S. officials said the launch was ``flawless''  and the module performed well during initial tests.
They cautioned  that much work remains to be done to get the ambitious space station  project up and working.
``Now we only have 44 launches to go, about  1,000 hours of space walks and countless problems, but because of  the trust and mutual respect ... the international space station is  going to be a reality,'' NASA chief Daniel Goldin told a press conference  after the launch.
His Russian counterpart, Yuri Koptev, said the launch  was a vital vindication for the troubled Russian space industry, proving  it could play a major role in space operations.
``Today we made a  truly epoch-making step to carry out this project.
The Russian space  industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to fulfill all of  its commitments on the international space station,'' he said.
The  launch went smoothly, with the rocket soaring into the cloudy sky  above the central Asian steppes.
The huge roar of the rocket reverberated  for dozens of kilometers (miles) across the empty plain around the  base.
The mood at the launch pad was tense before the launch, with  space officials and workers anxiously making last-minute checks to  ensure there were no problems.
Solar power panels on the module were  successfully deployed shortly after it reached its first orbit and  all systems were working normally, officials said.
The launch of the  Russian cargo module, which had been delayed for more than a year,  ushers in a new era of cooperation among former space-race rivals.
Space officials expressed optimism that cooperation would further  promote world stability following the end of the Cold War.
``We still  have some contradictions, we still have combat missiles aimed at each  other, but the predominant trend is the state of cooperation and doing  things together,'' said Yuri Semyonov of Russia's Energia space company.
The 12.4-meter (41.2-feet) Zarya, or Sunrise, was launched by a three-stage  Proton booster rocket.
Zarya is designed to serve as a space tugboat  in the early stages of the project, providing propulsion, power and  communications.
Engineers finished final preparations early Friday  for the liftoff of the 24-ton module.
The rocket blasted off under  cloudy skies and strong winds, and disappeared behind the clouds 40  seconds later.
The international space station, the U.S.-led successor  to Russia's beleaguered Mir, involves 16 nations and is due to be  completed by 2004.
It will consist of more than 100 elements that  will take 45 assembly flights to complete.
Russia's crucial participation  has been hampered by the country's financial problems.
The launch  of the first segment was postponed repeatedly, mainly because the  chronically broke Russian space agency couldn't afford to complete  another part of the station that is to go up later.
Zarya is to fly  alone for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space shuttle  Endeavor, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting  module.
The space station will not be inhabitable until at least early  2000, following the launch of a Russian crew module which is set to  blast off next July or August.
The space station is expected to cost  at least dlrs 40 billion, with the United States planning to pay dlrs  24 billion.
It will serve as an orbital home for visiting astronauts  and cosmonauts for at least 15 years.
Russia has repeatedly failed  to meet deadlines for constructing the crew module, putting the whole  project behind schedule.
Having lost hope of getting promised government  funds, the Russian space agency has sold research time on the station  to NASA for dlrs 60 million to complete the segment.
Russia rents  the Baikonur launching pad from Kazakstan.
The first part of the international space station was smoothly orbiting  Earth on Friday after a faultless launch that marked the start of  a new age in space exploration and colonization.
A Russian Proton  booster rocket carried the module into its initial orbit 200 kilometers  (125 miles) above the Earth and the unit was operating as planned,  officials said.
Russia's Zarya, or Sunrise, module is to fly alone  for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space shuttle  Endeavour, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting  module.
Space officials from 16 nations taking part in the project  cheered as the rocket soared into the cloudy sky above the central  a year later than  planned.
``During the, pickup 4th pvs
Russian space officials gave the first module of the international  space station a routine tweak Saturday to push it into higher orbit,  and convened a meeting on Earth to map out its future.
Flight controllers  fired one of the module's two maneuvering engines to raise it to an  orbit about 230 kilometers (157 miles) in space, the station's public  affairs office said.
Russian Space Agency general director Yuri Koptev  told reporters the maneuver was carried out ``with great accuracy,''  and the 24-ton core module was cruising through space without any  problems.
The module, called Zarya, or Sunrise, lifted off Friday  from the Baikonur launchpad in Kazakstan into an initial orbit 200  kilometers (125 miles) above Earth.
Zarya is to serve as a space tugboat  in the early stages of the international project, providing propulsion,  power and communications.
It will fly alone for two weeks before a  rendezvous with the American space shuttle Endeavour, which is to  be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting module.
The international  space station is a U.S.-led successor to Russia's Mir space station,  and is being heralded by space officials as the vehicle for unprecedented  international cooperation in space in the 21st century.
The heads  of the space agencies of the United States, Russia, Japan and Canada,  along with the European Space Agency, met in Moscow on Saturday to  discuss the project, the Interfax news agency reported.
The space  agency heads agreed on a schedule for future meetings and on holding  a scientific conference on the project somewhere in Europe, at an  unspecified date.
Also Saturday, the head of Russia's Mission Control,  Vladimir Lobachev, was quoted as saying that Russia would take the  lead role in managing the international space station during its first  five years.
Previously, space officials have said the station would  be jointly controlled from Moscow and Houston, with the U.S. space  agency NASA taking a lead role.
According to Interfax, Lobachev said  it made sense for Russia to control the project because the Russian-built  Zarya and a Russian-built service module would perform most of the  life support and navigational functions for the station's first five  years.
``Furthermore, Russian engineers are more experienced in this  job and NASA officials are aware of this,'' he said.
The space station  is expected to cost at least dlrs 40 billion, of which the United  States is expected to pay dlrs 24 billion.
Russia's financing problems  delayed the initial launch by a year, and some critics have said the  station amounts to an expensive way for NASA to keep Russia's beleaguered  space program alive.
The station will serve as an orbital home for  visiting astronauts and cosmonauts for at least 15 years.
Endeavour and its astronauts closed in Sunday to capture the first  piece of the international space station, the Russian-made Zarya control  module that had to be connected to the Unity chamber aboard the shuttle.
Stacking the two giant cylinders 240 miles above the Earth was considered  the most difficult part of the mission.
The job fell to Nancy Currie,  the shuttle crane operator who had deftly hoisted and repositioned  Unity in the cargo bay on Saturday.
The two station pieces are so  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the other with a combined  mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her crewmates were going to  have to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views, rather  than direct line of sight.
Such a ``blind'' docking had never been  attempted before.
Mission Control gave the astronauts plenty of time  for the tasks.
``The main thing I've tried to do for the last two  years working on this flight is make sure we have time.
We have margin  on everything,'' said flight director Bob Castle.
Before beginning  their final approach to Zarya _ Russian for Sunrise _ the shuttle's  six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket launched  last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots to  fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between Endeavour  and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles from the  orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably a little  too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger worry, by  far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya, and its coupling  with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never before been  assigned to handle an object as massive as the 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakhstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity will serve  as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
In case  Zarya and Unity could not be connected with the robot arm, two spacewalking  astronauts would have to manually fit them together.
The astronauts  would be going out anyway Monday to attach electrical connectors and  cables between the two components.
In all, three spacewalks were planned  for Endeavour's 12-day flight.
NASA estimates 43 more launches and  159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew of the good  ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The  240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
The union  _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the  stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical  connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission Control  thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned and gave  the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything occurred  more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from a piece of  space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their final approach  to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket  launched last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots  to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between  Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles  from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably  a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger  worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya,  and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never  before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called  down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian  flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully deployed  in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't  be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only other problem  was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Endeavour's astronauts connected the first two building blocks of  the international space station on Sunday, creating a seven-story  tower in the shuttle cargo bay.
It was the first time that the Russian-built  Zarya control module and the made-in-America Unity chamber had ever  touched.
It looked to be a perfect and, hopefully, long-lasting fit.
``We have capture of Zarya,'' commander Robert Cabana announced the  moment the two pieces came together.
``Congratulations to the crew  of the good ship Endeavour,'' replied Mission Control.
``That's terrific.''
The 240-mile-high construction job began two hours earlier with Nancy  Currie's capture of Zarya (Russian for Sunrise) using the shuttle  robot arm.
``We're halfway home,'' Cabana said.
Then came the hard  part: stacking the two giant cylinders in the cargo bay.
The two station  77 feet from the tip of one to the tip of the  other with a combined mass of 70,000 pounds _ that Currie and her  crewmates had to rely on a computerized vision system and camera views,  rather than direct line of sight.
This was the first time such a ``blind''  docking had ever been attempted.
Currie positioned the solar-winged  Zarya, still on the end of the shuttle robot arm, several inches directly  above Unity.
It was slow going; she wanted and needed perfect alignment.
Once she was sure she had it, Cabana fired Endeavour's thrusters,  and the brief burst raised the shuttle and thereby Unity enough for  the docking mechanisms on the two station components to snap together.
The historical moment occurred above the South Pacific.
The union  _ intended to last the station's 15-year or more lifetime _ set the  stage for a spacewalk by two astronauts on Monday to attach electrical  connectors and cables between the two components.
Mission Control  thought Sunday's work might take hours longer than planned and gave  the six astronauts plenty of time for the tasks.
But everything occurred  more or less when and how it was supposed to, aside from a piece of  space junk that strayed too close.
Before beginning their final approach  to Zarya, the six astronauts had to steer clear of a chunk of a rocket  launched last month from California.
Mission Control ordered the pilots  to fire the shuttle thrusters to put an extra three miles between  Endeavour and the space junk, putting Endeavour a total of five miles  from the orbiting debris.
The smaller gap would have been ``probably  a little too close for comfort,'' Mission Control said.
The bigger  worry, by far, was over Endeavour's pursuit and capture of Zarya,  and its coupling with Unity.
The shuttle's 50-foot robot arm had never  before handled an object as massive as the 41-foot, 44,000-pound Zarya,  a power and propulsion module that was launched from Kazakstan on  Nov. 20.
It will provide all of the necessary electricity and steering  for the fledgling space station until a permanent control module can  be launched next summer.
Minutes after Zarya's capture, Cabana called  down that two antennas on the module were still undeployed as Russian  flight controllers had feared.
The antennas must be fully deployed  in order for Zarya's manual docking system to work; that system won't  be needed before next summer, officials said.
The only other problem  was with a Zarya battery; the astronauts took up a replacement part.
The 36-foot, 25,000-pound Unity, the first American-made component,  will serve as a connecting passageway, or vestibule, for future modules.
It was crucial that Zarya and Unity be joined; if they could not be  connected with the robot arm, NASA would have sent out two spacewalking  astronauts to manually fit them together.
In all, three spacewalks  are planned for Endeavour's 12-day flight, not only to hook up electrical  connections between the two modules but to install handrails and other  tools for future crews.
The joined modules will be released from Endeavour  once all of the work is completed.
NASA estimates 43 more launches  and 159 more spacewalks will be needed after this mission to assemble  the entire orbiting complex.
Once completed, the 16-nation space station  will have a mass of 1 million pounds, be longer than a football field,  and house up to seven astronauts and cosmonauts.
Two astronauts ventured back out on another spacewalk Wednesday to  attach antennas to the international space station under construction  nearly 250 miles above Earth.
For the second time this week, Jerry  Ross and James Newman floated out the hatch of the shuttle Endeavour  to work on the seven-story, 35-ton station taking shape in the open  cargo bay.
Their No. 1 priority was to attach two 100-pound antennas  to Unity, the American-made side of the space station.
Their other  job, time permitting, was trickier: trying to open a stuck antenna  on Zarya, the Russian-built control module.
The planned seven-hour  spacewalk was not nearly as difficult or crucial as Monday night's  outing, during which Ross and Newman hooked up 40 electrical connections  between Zarya and Unity.
The plan called for the men to lug two suitcase-size  antennas about halfway up Unity and install them on opposite sides  of the 36-foot cylinder.
Once activated, the antennas will provide  a direct, virtually uninterrupted communication link between Unity  and NASA's Mission Control.
Otherwise, U.S. flight controllers would  have to rely on the sporadic coverage provided by Russian ground stations.
The electronic and computer hookups for the antennas will be made  inside Unity on Thursday, after the entire crew enters the orbiting  station for the first time.
Other spacewalking chores for Ross and  Newman on Wednesday evening included erecting a sunshade over a computer  mounted to the outside of Unity.
Mission Control decided just before  the spacewalk to let Newman take a crack at unjamming the Zarya antenna.
Flight controllers urged caution.
The antenna was rolled up on a spool,  and engineers worried the 3-foot strip might pop open with enough  force to hurt him if he got too close.
Newman had a 10-foot grappling  hook for the job.
The antenna is one of two that failed to open properly  following Zarya's Nov. 20 launch from Kazakstan.
One more spacewalk  is planned for Endeavour's 12-day mission: On Saturday, Ross and Newman  will conduct a photo survey and take out a sack of tools that will  be used by future station visitors.
Newman also may try to unjam the  other Zarya antenna.
This was the sixth spacewalk for Ross during  his 18-year NASA career, the most by an American, and the third for  Newman.
NASA and the Russian Space Agency have agreed to set  aside a last-minute Russian request to launch an international space  station into an orbit closer to Mir, officials announced Friday.
While  putting the new station closer to Russia's 12-year-old Mir station  would make it easier to transfer equipment and supplies from the old  outpost to the new one, the request came too late to be acted on,  said Randy Brinkley, NASA's space station program manager.
NASA was  surprised last week when Russia's prime station contractor proposed  the orbital position change just two-and-a-half weeks before launch  of the first part of the new station.
Delaying the Nov. 20 flight  by 10 hours to match the orbits would have forced similar shifts in  the subsequent assembly flights, and resulted in potentially unfavorable  sun angles on the solar-powered station, engineers said.
``We have  mutually concluded that it would not be prudent to make these changes,''  Brinkley said during a news conference held at the Johnson Space Center  in Houston.
``It added technical complexity and risks to the mission  that were not justified.''
The decision, which followed ``frank and  candid'' discussions between the two partners, was not imposed by  the United States, he said.
``The conclusions were mutual,'' Brinkley  said.
``Both sides concluded that it did not make sense.''
The Russians,  struggling to find money for their space program with their nation  in economic collapse, had said they wanted to transfer thousands of  pounds of newer equipment and scientific instruments from Mir as an  economy move.
However, some critics questioned the Russians' motives,  wondering if the requested orbital change was part of plan to delay  the decommissioning and destruction of Mir, which the Russians have  agreed to do next summer.
The Russians have so little money that the  United States and other partners in the international station fear  that money spent on Mir will prevent Russia from meeting its obligations  with the new project.
``The Mir competes with the international space  station for very critical resources and for funding,'' Brinkley said.
NASA will consider ideas for salvaging Mir's research equipment to  use on the international space station, he said, but only if it does  not interfere with assembling the new station.
The United States and  15 other nations plan to begin building the new station in orbit next  week when the Russians launch a module that will supply power and  propulsion during the early stages of the five-year construction period.
The space shuttle Endeavor is to follow on Dec. 3 with the second  station part, a U.S.-built connecting passageway that attaches to  the first module.
The first piece of the international space station was orbiting Earth  Friday, sprouting antennae and unfolding solar power panels as it  awaited other segments, which will eventually grow into the largest  orbital laboratory in history.
The module, called Zarya from the Russian  term meaning sunrise or dawn, took a flawless ride into space atop  a three-stage Russian Proton booster rocket that lifted off at 1:40  a.m. Eastern time from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.
The  launching was witnessed by the heads of the space agencies of the  16 nations that are sponsoring the station, which will cost at least  $40 billion to build over the next five years.
Zarya, built in Russia  with $240 million from the United States, is to be joined in two weeks  by the first American module, a docking hub called Unity.
The space  shuttle Endeavour is to take off on Dec. 3 to rendezvous with Zarya  and attach the two units.
This is to be followed by 43 more flights  by American and Russian rockets carrying more than 100 parts to be  assembled in space to form a 900,000-pound research station housing  up to seven astronauts.
Daniel Goldin, the administrator of NASA,  said at a news conference following the launching, ``Now we only have  44 launches to go, about 1,000 hours of space walks and countless  problems.''
But because of all the partner nations trusting each other  and working together, he said, ``the international space station is  going to be a reality.''
Even as the new space station is coming together,  questions continue about the fate of Russia's existing space laboratory,  the 12-year-old Mir.
Because of the collapse of the Russian economy,  doubts that Russia can produce enough rockets and other equipment  to support both projects led Russia to promise that it would abandon  Mir and destroy the station by next summer.
However, in recent weeks  Russian officials have been lobbying to find ways to extend Mir's  life.
According to a report by the news agency Reuters, President  Boris Yeltsin's space adviser, Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, said Friday he  was preparing a number of proposals on extending Mir's life past the  year 2000.
Support for such options has been growing in recent weeks  among Russian space officials, astronauts and nationalists, who see  Mir as a symbol of Russian achievements in space.
James Van Laak,  NASA's deputy manager of operations for the space station, said Friday  that the agency had not received any formal proposals about extending  Mir's life.
``NASA would find such a proposal unacceptable if it has  any measurable impact on the international space station,'' Van Laak  said in a telephone interview from the Johnson Space Center in Houston,  ``No one has any objection to Mir or keeping it operational if the  Russians find a way to support both projects, but they have to demonstrate  they can.''
Yuri Koptev, head of the Russian Space Agency, said the  launching of Zarya, a 42,000-pound space tugboat that will supply  power and propulsion in the early stages of station construction,  was a needed vindication for the troubled Russian space program.
``The  Russian space industry is alive and well and is perfectly able to  fulfill all of its commitments on the international space station,''  Koptev said.
Latin leaders at Ibero-American summit explore ways to avoid economic turmoil and warn of likely global recession.
Brazil President Cardoso will announce deficit-cutting austerity measures.
Brazil and the IMF move closer to an agreement on a $30 billion rescue package.
Cardoso readies his plan for spending cuts and tax increases as part of the IMF deal.
He will unveil the full plan next week.
The success of his economic efforts may depend on the outcome of upcoming gubernatorial elections.
The Commerce Dept. measures the effects of global economic decline on the U.S. economy.
The U.S. will give billions of taxpayer dollars to the Brazil-IMF rescue deal.
As Latin American nations gathered for the Ibero-American summit, there was general concern for the global economy.
Most leaders attending warned that the downturn in the global economy could have dire consequences.
The crisis facing Latin America has had an effect on the U.S. economy as exports declined as a result of the recession.
Brazil's economy was especially hard hit and it has entered into talks with the IMF to secure loans needed to bolster its economy.
The outcome of these talks could depend on the outcome of the Brazilian elections.
In an effort to cuts its deficit, Brazil has cut back on the perks of government workers.
The Brazilian economy was close to collapse in mid-Oct 1998.
Capitol was leaving the country, interest rates were at 50%, and unemployment was up.
It was a major topic at the annual Ibero-American summit.
The IMF was preparing a $30 billion rescue package, requiring Brazil to implement an austerity package, sure to be unpopular.
Brazil's central government, needing states' support, had to delay any real actions until after the gubernatorial run-off elections.
The US, suffering from a rapidly growing trade deficit and fearing the rest of the Americas would follow a Brazilian economic collapse, considered changing policy and providing direct financial aid.
In an effort to stem the financial crisis in Brazil, the world's ninth largest economy and the financial engine of Latin America, U.S. officials have signaled a willingness to provide billions in direct aid.
Brazil is also negotiating with the IMF for a $30 billion bail-out package.
The agreement almost certainly includes unpopular austerity measures to trim the country's budget deficit.
Brazil's crisis was triggered by Russia's default on loans followed by a strong outflow of capital.
Meanwhile, the U.S. Commerce Department reported the nation's trade deficit rose $2.2 billion, indicating the U.S. has not been shielded from the global economic downturn.
Latin American leaders flew Friday to Portugal for a weekend summit  to figure out how they can shield their economies from the global  financial crisis.
Not since the early 1980s have so many countries  been in recession, and the crisis now threatens to cripple Latin America's  developing economies.
An early arrival, Cuban President Fidel Castro,  described the turmoil in world financial markets as the most important  issue facing the world at the moment.
``I don't know if we are coming  to the end of the world economic order.
It will be interesting to  know,'' the Cuban leader said at a hotel press conference shortly  after his arrival for the annual Ibero-American summit.
Emphasizing  the scale of the threat, Castro said President Clinton was aware that  ``if South America falls into crisis, it will be extended inevitably  also to the United States,'' which is heavily involved in investments  and loans in the region.
Jittery investors have abruptly pulled cash  out of Latin America with devastating effects on stock markets and  currency reserves.
The heads of state and government from Latin America,  Spain and Portugal will explore measures to ward off the financial  turmoil that already has devastated Asia and Russia.
Stock markets  also fell in Portugal and Spain, heavy investors in Latin America.
The Latin American leaders must gauge the need for unpopular reforms  of their public finances, including austerity packages which risk  social unrest and political upheaval.
A joint declaration will be  signed Sunday in this ancient port city on the Douro River in northern  Portugal.
Diplomats said there was consensus on the form of the final  statement.
The declaration ``calls on the international community,  and Group of Seven countries in particular, to take the necessary  measures to promote stability in international financial markets,  which is a necessary condition for sustained economic growth,'' said  Luis Augusto Castro Neves, of the Brazilian Foreign Ministry.
Latin  America's leaders favor creating some kind of regulatory system for  global financial transactions that would place controls on speculators,  like measures to slow down the internatioal flow of money.
They also  want reforms that allow international financial institutions to head  off crises rather than react to them with rescue packages.
``International  institutions must be active in tackling crises like the recent one  ... and contribute to stability,'' Portuguese Foreign Minister Jaime  Gama said.
``Countries that have progressive policies should not be  penalized, they should be given incentives,'' Gama added in reference  to Latin American nations' efforts to modernize their economies.
Brazil,  the continent's largest economy and a potential bulwark against creeping  recession, is waiting for news of a dlrs 30 billion bailout package  from the International Monetary Fund.
The presidents of the World  Bank and InterAmerican Development Bank also were expected at the  talks.
The move by the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates  Thursday revived Latin America's financial markets, but analysts expected  the reprieve to be short-lived because of deep concerns about the  continent's economic health.
The recent economic troubles stemmed  in part from the structural weaknesses of Latin American economies.
A strike being waged by state employees in Colombia against a government  austerity package offers a glimpse of the trouble that could arise  if tough reforms are introduced.
Brazil is drafting an austerity package  that will hit public spending, especially social security.
Leaders from 19 Latin American nations, Spain and Portugal put finishing  touches Saturday on an Ibero-American summit declaration warning of  global recession unless action is taken to stabilize the international  financial system.
The draft declaration said recent financial market  turmoil shows that adjustments must be made quickly ``to keep the  difficulties affecting a few from becoming a crisis for all.''
The  declaration addresses the world's seven richest nations.
The Group  of Seven is composed of the United States, Japan, Britain, Germany,  France, Italy and Canada.
The final declaration will be approved at  Sunday's summit in this port city in northern Portugal.
Brazilian  President Fernando Henrique Cardoso said Saturday that Brazil and  China, two of the world's largest economies, had become the ``dikes  of resistance'' to global recession.
Protecting their economies from  the spreading economic turmoil, which is affecting more countries  than at any time since the early 1980s, is key to world economic stability,  he said.
Brazil is Latin America's biggest economy and the eighth-largest  in the world, and its economic collapse could take the rest of the  continent with it.
To halt Brazil's slide toward recession, Cardoso  is preparing austerity measures including spending cuts, tax hikes  and lower interest rates.
The reforms would help Brazil qualify for  an International Monetary Fund rescue package estimated at dlrs 30  billion.
The IMF has put together bailout packages totaling dlrs 137  billion since the financial crisis struck Thailand 15 months ago and  then spread from Asia to Russia.
U.S. President Bill Clinton's administration,  aware of the impact that a Latin American recession would have on  the United States, has actively pushed the IMF and the World Bank  to support Brazil after it was hit by investor flight.
Caught in the middle of an economic crisis, many Brazilian factories  fear they won't be able to pay their workers the mandatory year-end  bonus.
So they're considering paying with products instead of cash.
Some workplaces have already offered their employees such things as  hammers, nails, screws and bolts instead of the traditional cash bonus  that normally is equivalent to one month's wage, said the head of  Brazil's largest federation of trade unions.
``The idea is completely  unacceptable,'' said Joao Antonio Felicio, secretary-general of the  federation, which represents more than 2,000 unions and 19 million  workers.
``We will recommend our unions reject such a preposterous  proposal.''
But strapped for cash and punished by high interest rates  and declining sales, factory owners may have no other choice, said  Joseph Curi, president of the Sao Paulo State Association of Small  Industries, which represents 110,000 factories that employ nearly  800,000 workers.
``Access to credit is almost impossible,'' Curi said.
``If banks and the government don't create some kind of emergency  credit line, the only option many of our associates will have will  be to use products to pay the bonus.''
Factories that produce clothes,  shoes, food, toys and household appliances were ``the most enthusiastic  about the idea,'' Curi said.
Curi predicted even harsher times for  Brazil with the belt-tightening austerity package newly re-elected  President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is expected to announce Tuesday.
The measures, aimed at curbing the country's ballooning budget deficit  are expected  to include spending cuts and, possibly, more taxes.
``There is a lot  of talk of increasing taxes, which means less cash circulating in  the market and more credit restrictions,'' Curi said.
``It is a shortsighted  approach that will spell more recession and the collapse of many small  factories.''
Brazil has been a major casualty of the global economic  crisis, buffeted by loss of investor confidence and a strong outflow  of capital.
The country's foreign reserves have fallen below dlrs  50 billion, from dlrs 70 billion at the end of July.
In an effort  to prevent a collapse of the nation's currency, the real, and stem  capital flight, interest rates were hiked to 50 percent a year.
For  union leader Felicio, the proposed product-for-cash swap ``is a clear  sign of the despair the business sector is feeling because of the  recessive economic policies'' brought by the Real Plan, the economic  stabilization program put together in 1994 when Cardoso was finance  minister.
The plan succeeded in slashing inflation from 2,400 percent  to almost zero today.
But it also brought recession and unemployment,  which now stands at almost 8 percent, the highest in a decade.
Brazil and the International Monetary Fund moved closer Tuesday to  agreement on an expected dlrs 30 billion rescue package for the world's  ninth-largest economy.
A joint statement by the IMF and the Brazilian  government said the two sides agreed Brazil should aim to reduce its  budget deficit from an expected eight percent of gross domestic product  to zero by 2000.
The statement was issued after weekend talks between  IMF officials and a Brazilian delegation headed by Pedro Parente,  executive secretary of the Finance Ministry.
Representatives of the  World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank took part in the  talks.
Both organizations as well as private banks are expected to  contribute to the rescue package.
Brazil is the latest country to  be hit by the financial crisis that began 15 months ago in Asia and  then spread to Russia.
Brazil has lost about dlrs 25 billion in foreign  currency reserves since August when Russia defaulted on its debts  and sparked a new crisis of confidence in emerging market countries.
If instability continues in Brazil it could affect Argentina, its  main trading partner, and other Latin American economies.
Despite  the re-election of Fernando Henrique Cardoso for a second term as  president and the announcement Oct. 8 that Brazil and the IMF had  agreed on the broad outlines of a financial assistance package, investors  continued to withdraw large sums of money from Brazil.
Cardoso is  preparing an emergency program of budget cuts to restore investor  confidence and prevent a devaluation of the country's currency.
Investors  want Cardoso to outline the plans this week but he is expected to  wait until after Sunday's second round of elections for state governors,  whose support he needs for his budget cuts.
The joint statement said  the Brazil-IMF discussions ``were aimed at preparing the ground for  prompt support by the international community, including the IMF,  for the multi-year fiscal program to be announced soon by the Brazilian  authorities, which will include new policy initiatives.''
The statement  reiterated Brazil's goal of achieving a primary budget surplus of  2.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 1999, 2.8 percent in  2000 and 3.0 percent in 2001 which would '' fulfill the government  target of stabilizing the ratio of net consolidated public sector  debt to GDP by the year 2000.''
The two sides are to continue their  talks ``with the objective of reaching early agreement,'' the statement  said.
There's no such thing as a free lunch any longer in Brazil, President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso is telling government workers.
No haircuts  or phone calls, either.
Eager to bolster the sagging economy, Cardoso  wants to slash dlrs 19 billion from the budget deficit, and he's beginning  by paring perks for the more than 2,000 workers at the presidential  palace in Brasilia, the capital.
Sure, it's not much when compared  with a deficit of some dlrs 65 billion, or 7 percent of economic output.
But as Cardoso readies a package of spending cuts and tax increases,  he clearly wants to show Brazilians that economy starts at home.
So  goodbye to the afternoon courtesy snack of sandwiches, fruit and juice,  a palace tradition.
Three barber shops in the palace were closed,  and the use of cellular phones and copiers was restricted.
The price  of a buffet offered employees for lunch was raised from dlrs 6 to  dlrs 8.50.
Cardoso himself has promised to travel less and more cheaply.
On a trip to a summit in Portugal this month, he took a delegation  of just eight, half the usual number.
The savings at the palace could  come to nearly dlrs 145,000 a month, said Nilson Rebello, chief administrator  of the president's office.
Cardoso, under pressure to repair an economy  battered by the world financial turmoil, is expected to unveil the  full scope of his deficit-cutting plan next week.
It is believed to  include a spate of new taxes on fuel, income, personal fortunes and  bank transactions.
The plan is part of a deal with the International  Monetary Fund for a rescue package estimated at dlrs 30 billion.
The  money would strengthen and, hopefully, restore investor confidence  in the world's ninth-largest economy, now at the center of the financial  crisis buffeting developing nations for more than a year.
Brazil already  has agreed to annual targets to sharply reduce its deficit through  the year 2001.
On Wednesday, newspapers published a joint statement  from Brazil and the IMF, although a final agreement hasn't been reached  yet.
Despite Cardoso's efforts, many Brazilians were less than impressed  by the palace penny-pinching.
The leftist Workers Party said the government  was making a big deal of insignificant savings while it failed to  cut other dubious projects, such as a dlrs 800,000 moat being built  around Congress to keep protesters from easily entering the building.
The Globo TV network also suggested there still was plenty of fat  to cut, citing government expenses for running shoes, Persian carpets  and gold cufflinks, intended as presents for visiting dignitaries.
Cardoso is counting on help from friendly state governors to control  spending.
But the governors, some facing runoff elections on Sunday,  are promising pay raises and public works projects that could sink  the austerity plan.
In Brasilia, Joaquim Roriz has promised civil  service raises, bonuses and new jobs that his opponent estimates would  cost some dlrs 1 billion.
Roriz hasn't explained where the money would  come from.
In powerful Minas Gerais state, the government will almost  the state payroll consumes 78  percent of the budget.
To rein in the free-spending habits of provincial  politicians, Cardoso reportedly wants to hold local governments to  bimonthly limits on spending.
Federal money would automatically be  cut off if spending gets out of hand.
There's no such thing as a free lunch any longer in Brazil, President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso is telling government workers.
No haircuts  or phone calls, either.
Eager to bolster the sagging economy, Cardoso  wants to slash dlrs 19 billion (23.5 billion reals) from the budget  deficit, and he's beginning by paring perks for the more than 2,000  workers at the presidential palace in Brasilia, the capital.
Sure,  it's not much when compared with a deficit of some dlrs 65 billion,  or 7 percent of economic output.
But as Cardoso readies a package  of spending cuts and tax increases, he clearly wants to show Brazilians  that economy starts at home.
So goodbye to the afternoon courtesy  snack of sandwiches, fruit and juice, a palace tradition.
Three barber  shops in the palace were closed, and the use of cellular phones and  copiers was restricted.
The price of a buffet offered employees for  lunch was raised from dlrs 6 to dlrs 8.50 (7 reals to 10 reals).
Cardoso  himself has promised to travel less and more cheaply.
On a trip to  a summit in Portugal this month, he took a delegation of just eight,  half the usual number.
The savings at the palace could come to nearly  dlrs 145,000 (170,000 reals) a month, said Nilson Rebello, chief administrator  of the president's office.
Cardoso, under pressure to repair an economy  battered by the world financial turmoil, is expected to unveil the  full scope of his deficit-cutting plan next week.
It is believed to  include a spate of new taxes on fuel, income, personal fortunes and  bank transactions.
The plan is part of a deal with the International  Monetary Fund for a rescue package estimated at dlrs 30 billion.
The  money would strengthen and, hopefully, restore investor confidence  in the world's ninth-largest economy, now at the center of the financial  crisis buffeting developing nations for more than a year.
Brazil already  has agreed to annual targets to sharply reduce its deficit through  the year 2001.
On Wednesday, newspapers published a joint statement  from Brazil and the IMF, although a final agreement hasn't been reached  yet.
Despite Cardoso's efforts, many Brazilians were less than impressed  by the palace penny-pinching.
The leftist Workers Party said the government  was making a big deal of insignificant savings while it failed to  cut other dubious projects, such as a dlrs 800,000 (1 million reals)  moat being built around Congress to keep protesters from easily entering  the building.
The Globo TV network also suggested there still was  plenty of fat to cut, citing government expenses for running shoes,  Persian carpets and gold cufflinks, intended as presents for visiting  dignitaries.
Cardoso is counting on help from friendly state governors  to control spending.
But the governors, some facing runoff elections  on Sunday, are promising pay raises and public works projects that  could sink the austerity plan.
In Brasilia, Joaquim Roriz has promised  civil service raises, bonuses and new jobs that his opponent estimates  would cost some dlrs 1 billion (1.2 billion reals).
Roriz hasn't explained  where the money would come from.
In powerful Minas Gerais state, the  the state  payroll consumes 78 percent of the budget.
To rein in the free-spending  habits of provincial politicians, Cardoso reportedly wants to hold  local governments to bimonthly limits on spending.
Federal money would  automatically be cut off if spending gets out of hand.
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's efforts to repair the largest  economy in Latin America may depend on the outcome of this weekend's  gubernatorial elections.
Cardoso wants to impose tough measures that  would slash government spending and impose new taxes to try to halt  the slide in Brazil's economy and restore investor confidence.
But  his plan, expected to be unveiled next week, must be approved by Congress,  and state governors have enormous sway over local delegations.
``The  influence governors have on their congressional blocs is overwhelming,''  said University of Sao Paulo political scientist Eduardo Kugelmas.
Brazil has been caught up in the financial turmoil that began more  than a year ago in Southeast Asia.
As wary investors have fled its  financial markets, Brazil's foreign reserves have fallen below dlrs  50 billion from dlrs 70 billion at the end of July.
On Sunday, voters  return to the polls for runoff elections in 12 states and in the Federal  District of Brasilia.
The outcome will likely determine how successful  Cardoso is in getting Congress to approve his economic program, which  is aimed at trimming the budget deficit.
New income, fuel and bank  transaction taxes are expected to be proposed.
Kugelmas said opponents  of the president stand a good chance of winning in four large states  Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande do Sul.
``If  they win, the president will face a tough uphill battle,'' he said.
Cardoso needs the governors' support not only in influencing the congressional  delegations, but also in holding down their own spending.
``The problem  is that none of the candidates in Sunday's elections ... wants to  be identified with unpopular austerity measures,'' said Kugelmas.
``So they promise to spend more money on schools, hospitals and public  work projects.''
Sao Paulo, Brazil's industrial and financial powerhouse,  is perhaps the state most critical to the success of Cardoso's austerity  plans.
With more than 34 million inhabitants, nearly equal to the  entire population of neighboring Argentina, it alone accounts for  more than one-third of Brazil's economic output and 70 of the 513  congressional seats.
While incumbent governor Mario Covas, a Cardoso  ally who is seeking re-election, has committed himself to the austerity  plan, Covas opponent Paulo Maluf is a question mark.
``If Maluf wins,  he will use his victory as a launching pad to the presidency in 2003,''  Kugelmas predicted.
``And that means he will try to stay as far away  as possible from any austerity measure.''
The Commerce Department on Tuesday provided a concrete measure of  the effects of the global economic downturn on the American economy,  reporting that the nation's trade deficit widened by $2.2 billion  in August to $16.77 billion.
That is the widest gap since the government  recalculated the way it measures trade flows in 1992.
It resulted  from a decline in American exports and a sharp increase in what this  country buys from abroad.
So far this year, the trade deficit is running  roughly 50 percent above last year's levels and is up to a projected  $170 billion for the year, a gap that is expected to widen even further.
One senior administration official who deals with economic issues,  speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday that internal projections  suggest that the trade deficit in 1999 could reach $300 billion, a  figure that he said ``will certainly cut into growth, and could well  become a major political problem.''
Trade deficits carry with them  both good and troubling signals about the economy.
The current flood  of imports is helping contain inflation to some of the lowest levels  in decades.
And while sales of American aircraft, computer chips and  other goods are suffering, the weakening of the dollar on world markets  in recent weeks may provide an end-of-the-year boost for American  exporters.
But at this moment of global upheaval, the biggest problem  facing American companies is the inability of many nations and some  large companies in Asia and Latin America simply to borrow money to  make ordinary purchases.
The result is such a freeze of economic activity  that empty shipping containers are stacking up on American piers.
And the effects are hurting everyone from Midwest farmers who can  no longer send wheat to an impoverished Russia, to East Coast fishermen  who are discovering that Japan's appetite for salmon and lobster has  been ruined by the banking crisis.
Among the most surprising elements  of Tuesday's report is that more than a third of August's deficit  was with one country that so far has managed to ward off the worst  effects of the global troubles: China.
Despite continued growth of  the Chinese economy, exports to China have slowed dramatically and  imports of Chinese-made goods have exploded, as the country desperately  seeks to sell here goods that would ordinarily be sold elsewhere in  Asia.
That increased the monthly deficit with Beijing to $5.9 billion,  besieged  by floods, deeply troubled state-owned industries and an incipient  banking crisis _ have signaled to the United States in recent weeks  that they have little interest in any swift moves to open their markets  further in return for entry into the World Trade Organization.
That  amounts to a major setback for President Clinton, who for three years  has been using the negotiations over China's entry to the world body  as the centerpiece of his effort to open China both economically and  politically.
Ostensible progress in this area has been cited by the  administration until recently as one of the successes of the administration's  China policy, but now officials say privately that the progress is  evaporating.
The decline in exports will trim the growth of the American  economy, and it was one factor in the Federal Reserve's decision to  lower interest rates two times in recent weeks.
So administration  officials were going out of their way Tuesday to portray the numbers  as another warning sign, but not a crisis.
``While the United States  remains strong and sound, the troubled condition of the global marketplace  continue to strongly influence the U.S. trade balance,'' Commerce  Secretary Williams Daley said in a statement Tuesday.
After China,  the biggest deterioration in the American trade balance in August  came in Mexico, where the peso has weakened markedly as economic contagion  has spread through Latin America.
Exports to Mexico have remained  unchanged.
But imports from Mexico have increased markedly _ chiefly  automobiles and automotive parts and telecommunications equipment  _ as American manufacturers have taken advantage of the weakening  currency.
In contrast, America's trade surplus with Brazil, the latest  focus of concern by the administration and the International Monetary  Fund, barely budged from the same period a year ago.
Normally, that  would be cited as a sign of continued demand for American products  in Latin America's largest economy, but there is fear it might be  imperiled.
The news comes as the United States and the IMF complete  a bailout package of $30 billion or more for Brazil, intended to help  it stave off the kind of economic troubles that have swept through  Asia, Russia and several other nations.
Tuesday the IMF and Brazil  reached agreement on the country's fiscal targets for this year and  next, a sign that the aid will likely be announced after elections  in Brazil this weekend.
But for all these potential problems, the  rising trade deficit has barely caused a ripple on Capitol Hill.
Because  the rising level of imports does not appear to be triggering any unemployment  here, the subject has barely come up in races for the House and Senate  around the country.
The only exception has been in regions where the  steel industry is strong.
The major steel companies have charged in  recent weeks that Asian nations are dumping products on the American  market at prices well below their costs.
The Commerce Department has  begun an inquiry.
The Commerce Department's numbers showed that the  deficit rose 15.3 percent to $16.77 billion in August, up from a revised  figure of $14.55 billion in July.
The department said that the resumption  of production at General Motors Corp. after last summer's strike may  have increased the size of the deficit's rise in August, as GM brought  in parts from abroad.
The deficit was the highest since the Commerce  Department began a new method of tracking trade information in 1992.
Exports, the department said, fell three tenths of 1 percent, to about  $74.8 billion.
Imports rose 2.2 percent to $91.6 billion.
Brazilian officials ended four days of meetings with representatives  of the International Monetary Fund on Tuesday without living up to  their public pledge to announce concrete measures to reduce government  deficits.
In Washington, Pedro Parente, executive secretary of the  Brazilian Finance Ministry, offered only details on Brazil's plans  for raising a primary account surplus over the next three years.
With  only five days to go before gubernatorial runoffs on Sunday, neither  he nor President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, in Brasilia, said how  the government planned to achieve the savings.
Important allies of  Cardoso are lagging behind in three key states, and despite the government  promises, market analysts did not expect an announcement until after  the elections.
Instead, the strategy in Brasilia and Washington appeared  to focus on reassuring the markets that work on cutting the deficit  was going forward, without providing fodder for opponents in domestic  elections.
``The discussions continue with the objective of reaching  agreement soon on the detailed program,'' said a joint statement by  the IMF and the Brazilian Finance Ministry.
Because of Brazil's enormous  deficits, the collapse of emerging markets has hit the nation particularly  hard, draining foreign currency reserves and pushing the economy toward  recession.
Finance officials in Washington and around the world fear  that a collapse of Brazil, because of its size and links to other  economies, would worsen financial instability throughout the hemisphere.
With 160 million people, Brazil represents the world's ninth-largest  economy and is the financial engine of Latin America.
Throughout the  day, government officials met with Cardoso in Brasilia and were expected  to fine-tune a three-year austerity package that Cardoso was to discuss  with congressional party leaders on Wednesday morning.
In Brasilia,  officials said that among the measures being considered were a tax  increase on financial transactions, to three-tenths of a percent from  two-tenths of a percent, and extending the Fiscal Stabilization Fund,  which sets aside 20 percent of all taxes collected for presidential  discretionary spending.
The fund was to have expired by 1999.
Speaking  in Washington, Parente said that Brazil would aim toward a surplus  of 2.6 percent in 1999, 2.8 percent in 2000 and 3 percent in 2001.
It had already been announced, at the end of the IMF's annual meeting  in Washington two weeks ago that Brazil would have to reach a primary  account surplus of 2.5 percent to 3 percent to qualify for IMF aid.
The primary account covers government expenses, without interest payments  on debt.
Ernest Brown, senior economist for Latin America at Morgan  Stanley Dean Witter, said signs that the Brazilian government and  the IMF were moving closer to an aid package were reassuring, and  that he did not expect much more than reassurance until next week.
``I call this the `We have a pope' scenario,'' Brown said.
``You're  just going to hear that we have a pope, maybe see the white smoke  rising,'' he said, ``and not figure out who the pope is until after  the elections.''
The United States is preparing to commit U.S. taxpayer funds as part  of a lending program of at least $30 billion to try to insulate Brazil,  and with it the rest of Latin America, from the worst effects of the  financial turmoil circling the globe, according to U.S. and foreign  officials assembling the program.
Details of the U.S. contribution,  which is expected to total several billion dollars in direct aid or  loan guarantees, have yet to be negotiated.
But several congressional  leaders have been alerted to the likelihood that the administration  would have to act while Congress is in recess.
This early warning  from the administration reflects memories of how Congress erupted  with objections and hearings in 1995 when President Clinton committed  $20 billion in U.S. funds to the bailout of Mexico.
But administration  officials said last week that their early soundings indicate that  members of Congress are deeply concerned about preventing an economic  collapse in Latin America that would resound in the United States,  and thus they expect few objections.
The timing of an aid package  is complicated  by unexpected delays that have cropped up in dealing with the Brazilian  government.
The government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso  faces politically risky gubernatorial elections on Sunday, which may  well determine whether Brazil can execute an austerity program that  is the key condition for the loans it is concurrently negotiating  with the International Monetary Fund.
The biggest role in the rescue  program for Brazil will be taken by the International Monetary Fund,  which said last week that it would contribute at least $15 billion  _ and appears to be under pressure from the United States to do even  more.
Another $9 billion or so will come from the World Bank and the  Inter-American Development Bank, and the remainder from the United  States and other major industrial nations.
Germany and Japan, though,  have been reluctant to take part, one U.S. official noted, suggesting  that Latin America is chiefly Washington's problem, not their own.
So far, U.S. officials working behind the scenes to organize the aid  package have said nothing in public about the details of plans for  a direct contribution to Brazil.
``Brazil is very important to the  economic well-being of the region, the United States and the international  community, and all of us are very much focused on seeing how we can  be helpful,'' Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said on Friday.
But  in a wide-ranging interview about the global economic turmoil, Rubin  declined to say what strategy he would pursue in dealing with Brazil's  problems and insisted that no decisions had been made about how the  United States might contribute.
But he discussed Brazil as an opportunity  to engage in the kind of preventive financial diplomacy that President  Clinton advocated in speeches to the IMF and the World Bank here three  weeks ago.
At the time, Clinton argued that the monetary fund should  ``provide contingent finance to help countries ward off global financial  contagion'' rather than wait for disaster to strike.
Direct U.S. aid  to Brazil would clearly send a symbolic message: that after a year  of trying to manage the financial crisis through the monetary fund,  the United States is now ready to put a limited amount of its own  capital at risk to prevent further havoc _ not only for Brazil but  to stop chaos spreading to Argentina, Mexico and other countries that  are major U.S. trading partners.
That would be a change of strategy.
So far, the United States has operated almost entirely through international  financial institutions, chiefly the IMF But it would also be a risky  move for President Clinton, economically and politically.
Even though  Congress objected to the $20 billion in U.S. funds committed to the  bailout of Mexico, it turned out that only $12 billion was ultimately  needed, and it has since been paid back, with interest.
But Rubin  noted on Friday that ``it's a very different environment now.''
Other  administration officials say they believe that there would be few  objections in Congress to direct U.S. participation in a Brazil bailout.
``I think there are a lot more people in Congress who are now scared  to death by what's been happening in the markets, and what could happen  in their own districts,'' a White House official said last week, ``and  they won't say much as long as they don't have to vote on it.''
By  acting soon to stabilize Latin America, the administration is hoping  to capitalize on two weeks of relative calm after the late-summer  panic that engulfed Russia and, at its height, led to an outflow of  a billion dollars a day from Brazil, for fear that it would be the  next country forced to devalue its currency.
Whether this calm marks  the beginning of a turnaround or just another pause in the wildfires  that have erupted since Thailand's currency crisis in July 1997 is  a matter of considerable debate.
But many experts cite the confluence  of several events that have reassured jittery investors around the  world: two successive interest-rate cuts in the United States, Japan's  long-delayed move to prop up its banking system with $500 billion  in taxpayer funds, and a steady strengthening of currencies in Thailand,  Indonesia and South Korea, the first signs that investors may be preparing  to return.
Always circumspect when it comes to commenting publicly  on markets, Rubin acknowledged that ``in the last several weeks there  have been a number of significant, positive developments.''
But the  former trader, burned during a 26-year career by many false market  rallies, warned that ``serious issues remain'' and that ``it will  take some time for the world to work its way out'' of what he has  repeatedly called ``the most serious international financial disruption  of the last 50 years.''
In fact, Rubin's aides are clearly nervous  about the possibility of another outbreak that could set off a new  round of panic, which has made it virtually impossible for many emerging-market  countries to borrow money on world markets.
``Brazil and Japan are  the two obvious tinderboxes,'' said Jeffrey Garten, dean of the Yale  School of Management, who served as undersecretary of commerce for  international affairs during Clinton's first term.
``In Brazil, the  issue is whether the package that is coming together will really be  big enough to deal with an exploding debt problem.
And in Japan the  question is whether there is real reform that goes along with the  money.''
But after spending 18 months in negotiations with the Japanese,  Rubin clearly senses that the United States has little leverage in  Tokyo; its problems are chiefly rooted in political gridlock, not  lack of resources.
In Brazil, though, the United States has a better  chance of buying time and influencing an economic reform program,  as long as it does not appear to be dictating terms publicly to Cardoso  and his team.
But demonstrating economic support will probably require  tapping the Exchange Stabilization Fund, created during the Roosevelt  administration to help stabilize the dollar.
The money is under Rubin's  control, with presidential approval, and he reached into it to circumvent  congressional objections to aiding Mexico in 1995.
But the reaction  was so strong _ for a time Congress restricted tapping the fund for  international bailouts _ that Rubin has been extraordinarily cautious  ever since.
He committed $3 billion in a ``second line of defense''  in emergency aid programs for Indonesia and South Korea last year,  but no money was ultimately dispersed to either country.
U.S. officials  said that South Korea did not need the extra help, and that the collapse  of the Suharto government in Indonesia so changed the political scene  there that it would be too risky to offer direct U.S. aid.
In the  bailout of Russia _ whose economy collapsed after President Boris  Yeltsin abandoned an agreement to reform the economy and dismissed  the leading reformers _ the United States offered no direct help.
Those events set off a panicked exit by investors from all emerging  markets, and greatly worsened Brazil's troubles.
So far, Brazilian  officials have successfully calmed the market by constantly talking  about a forthcoming aid program from the IMF, convincing speculators  that it would be dangerous to bet against the country.
But at the  same time, the Brazilian officials have maintained the pose that they  do not really need the cash _ and are certainly in no hurry to get  it.
U.S. officials and top officials of the IMF are clearly nervous,  worried that the longer the negotiations drag on, the greater will  be the risk of Brazil being caught in another round of market turmoil.
``The Brazilians want everyone to think that it's all under control,''  said an investment banker involved in the talks.
``But the fact is  that there's still a real risk that sometime in the next 18 months  the government is going to be forced to devalue'' its currency, which  is pegged to the dollar, but adjusts about 7.5 percent a year in a  carefully controlled fall.
To prevent a sudden devaluation, the Brazilian  government has had to raise interest rates to more than 50 percent,  choking off credit for most companies.
Meanwhile, the country is slipping  into recession.
The aid would buy time for the Brazilians, but it  is contingent on Cardoso's success in persuading the legislature to  end huge deficits, chiefly through unpopular cuts in social spending.
The first deputy managing director for the International Monetary  Fund, Stanley Fischer, spent Friday in Brazil to review the country's  austerity plan, which is expected to be announced after Sunday's elections  but before the international package, to avoid the appearance that  the global lender is dictating conditions to Brazil.
``Brazil has  to do a lot,'' Fischer said last week before leaving on his trip.
``In return, I expect the international community will make a large  contribution.''
S. Korea says N. Korea may be producing plutonium in at least one underground site.
Satellite photos show a possible nuclear complex.
If it is, it will strain U.S.-N.
Korean relations and stop aid.
The U.S. wants a delegation to check the site.
N. Korea wants huge payment for inspection.
A recent missile test firing over Japan, N. Korean incursions into the south, and the suspicious site are major causes for concern.
The U.S. demands full access to the site and warns N. Korea not to waste a chance for lasting peace on the peninsula.
N. Korea says the U.S. is pushing it to the brink of war over demands for inspections and talks.
The meeting of the US, China, and the two Koreas in Geneva appeared to ease tension on that Asian peninsula.
However, indications of a revived North Korean nuclear program clouded President Clinton's "economics and security" Asian trip.
North Korea's economy is bad, malnutrition widespread, yet the country maintains a 1.1 million military force.
Past US food and fuel aid to that country has been based on it not promoting a nuclear program.
The US policy on Iraq is the removal of Saddam Hussein.
Now, apparently the US supports dumping PM Mahathir Mohamed in Malaysia.
President Clinton visited US troops at Osan Air Base in South Korea on his Asian trip.
North Korea agreed to receive a U.S. delegation to discuss concerns about an underground site feared to house a nuclear weapons program.
South Korea supports the U.S. and calls for full access to the site by U.S. inspectors.
North Korea denies the concerns and proposes a $300 mil payment to visit the site.
President Clinton in Seoul cautioned North Korea to focus on diplomacy, not nuclear ambitions.
North Korea has threatened war against U.S. if the dispute comes to blows.
The issue threatens to jeopardize North and South Korean peace talks to improve relations.
A recent U.S. official's visit toi North Korea revealed serious economic problems.
In August, US intelligence found a underground construction site near North Korea's nuclear complex.
North Korea, suffering a devastating famine, claims the site is civilian and offered an inspection for a $300 million payment.
This follows their August missile launch and suggests they are reneging on the 1994 agreement to end nuclear development in exchange for US aid.
Clinton discussed these developments with allies during his November trip to Asia.
He warned US troops in South Korea of increased danger, but has not directly attacked Kim Chong-il.
North Korea has begun its militant posturing as the date to discuss this construction with the US nears.
A South Korean lawmaker said Friday communist North Korea could be  producing plutonium and could have more secret underground nuclear  facilities than already feared.
Without naming his source, Rep. Kim  Deog-ryong of the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee said he had  ``information'' that two underground facilities captured on U.S. spy  satellite photos may be nuclear plants.
He said in a Parliament session  that one of them is believed to already be producing plutonium and  the other would be able to produce enough for 10 nuclear bombs starting  around 2004.
If true, the assertion paints a worse picture of suspected  North Korean nuclear activity than already made public.
Kim said he  asked the government's Unification Ministry about the issue earlier  this week and was suspicious of its answer.
``It was not sufficient  or sincere, so I came to suspect that the government is trying to  hide the truth,'' Kim said in a seven-page press release.
U.S. and  South Korean officials said in August they had detected a huge underground  construction site on a mountainside 40 kilometers (25 miles) northeast  of Yongbyon, the country's main nuclear complex.
The United States  has said it suspects the construction is nuclear-related, though it  has no evidence.
North Korea has denied it.
Kim, a lawmaker from the  main opposition Grand National Party, said there may actually be two  underground facilities not far from the Yongbyon complex.
It was activity  at Yongbyon that prompted the United States to negotiate a 1994 accord  promising development of two light-water reactors and fuel-oil shipments  if North Korea would halt nuclear weapons development.
At the time,  North Korea was believed to have made enough plutonium for one or  two atomic bombs.
The Yongbyon complex, which houses a 500-megawatt  laboratory nuclear reactor, has been frozen under the 1994 accord.
Kim said Friday that one new facility is already operating and the  other is under construction and will be operational in four to six  years.
``We estimate that the reactor will go on-line in 2002 or 2003,  enabling the production of enough plutonium to build one nuclear weapon  within six to 12 months,'' Kim said.
``North Korea would be able to  make sufficient plutonium to make eight to 10 nuclear weapons every  year after that.''
North Korea has said the underground construction  is for civilian use and not nuclear-related.
It has offered to open  the facility to U.S. inspectors, but says Washington must pay compensation  if the facility is been proven to be for civilian use.
U.S. President Bill Clinton won South Korea's  support Saturday for confronting North Korea over a suspected nuclear  site, and he warned the North's communist leaders not to squander  a chance to achieve lasting peace on the peninsula.
President Kim  Dae-jung, appearing with Clinton at a news conference, pledged to  ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve the  nuclear question.
He called for full access for U.S. inspectors at  a North Korean underground facility and said the North must not develop  missiles.
On the first of two days in South Korea, Clinton also held  a roundtable discussion with business leaders to hear their prescriptions  for putting the nation's economy back on track.
Economics and security  are Clinton's twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan.
Clinton acknowledged that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet  certain that the suspicious underground construction project in North  Korea is nuclear related.
But he said the North risks closing the  door on cooperation if it refuses a U.S. inspection of the site.
On  the first of two days in South Korea, Clinton also held a roundtable  discussion with business leaders to hear their prescriptions for putting  the nation's economy back on track.
Economics and security are Clinton's  twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan.
Clinton acknowledged  that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the underground  construction project in North Korea is nuclear related.
But he said  the North risks closing the door on cooperation if it refuses a U.S.  inspection of the site.
``It raises a strong suspicion,'' Clinton  said at a joint news conference with Kim at the Blue House, the presidential  mansion overlooking the capital.
``We need access to it.''
The foundation  of U.S. efforts to ease North Korea's decades-long hostility toward  the South is a 1994 ``agreed framework'' in which the North halted  its nuclear weapons program in exchange for a Western commitment to  build modern nuclear energy sources there.
That deal would be shattered  if the suspect site turned out to be a clandestine nuclear project.
Kim, who has moved South Korea to a ``sunshine'' policy of engaging  North Korea on cultural and economic fronts, was firm in saying his  government supports Clinton on the nuclear issue.
In meetings this  week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S. officials were rebuffed  in their request to see the suspicious site, which American intelligence  officials fear could be a secret effort to revive the North's nuclear  weapons program.
``We must require full access and ways to ascertain  the nature and the purposes of the construction site,'' Kim said.
``If it is, in fact, proven that it is nuclear related, we should  demand immediate close down.''
He also said the North must limit its  missile development, citing the ``great shock'' in Japan when the  North Koreans test-fired a missile its way Aug. 31.
U.S. spy satellite  photos show thousands of workers digging a massive complex.
U.S. special  envoy Charles Kartman on Friday retracted an assessment he made Thursday  that there was ``compelling evidence'' that North Korea is building  an underground nuclear facility.
In a statement distributed by the  U.S. embassy here today, Kartman said instead, ``There is strong information  that makes us suspicious, but we lack conclusive evidence that the  intended purpose of the underground site is nuclear related and, if  so, what type of nuclear facility it might be.''
Kim said his government  would support U.S. efforts to resolve the nuclear question.
The North  Koreans have denied the underground construction site has any nuclear  purpose, and have proposed a dlrs 300 million payment for allowing  inspections.
Clinton rejected the idea of compensation.
Directing  his remarks at North Korea, Clinton noted the significance of a new  tourism deal that is bringing South Koreans to the North on cruise  ships _ an arrangement touted by Kim as a sign the North may be opening  up to its 1950s Korean War enemy.
``Nothing could ever be put into  that hole in the ground, given our defense partnership here, that  would give the North Koreans as much advantage, as much power, as  much wealth, as much happiness, as more of those ships going up there  full of people from here,'' Clinton said.
In his meeting with Korean  community and business leaders at Seoul's National Folklore Museum,  Clinton praised South Korea's progress in recovering from its financial  crisis.
On a darker note, he mentioned recent tensions over Asian  steel exports to the United States, which have skyrocketed this year  at great cost to the domestic U.S. steelmakers.
Japanese steel is  the biggest problem, but South Korean steel exports also are on the  rise.
Clinton said the U.S. economy could tolerate increased imports  _ if they are not concentrated in just a few industries, and if the  result is that the Asian economies begin to recover.
``We have to  be sensitive if the price of doing that is to basically erase'' an  entire sector of the U.S. economy, Clinton said.
U.S. President Bill Clinton won South Korea's  support Saturday for confronting North Korea over a suspected nuclear  site, and he warned the North's communist leaders not to squander  an historic chance to make a lasting peace on the peninsula.
President  Kim Dae-jung, appearing with Clinton at a news conference, pledged  that his government would ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S.  endeavor'' to resolve the nuclear question.
He called for full access  for U.S. inspectors at a North Korean underground facility and said  the North must constrain its development and exports of missiles.
On the first of two days in South Korea, Clinton also held a roundtable  discussion with business leaders to hear their prescriptions for putting  the nation's economy back on track.
Economics and security are Clinton's  twin themes on a five-day Asia trip that began in Japan.
Clinton acknowledged  that U.S. intelligence officials are not yet certain that the suspicious  underground construction project in North Korea is nuclear related.
But he said the North risks closing the door on cooperation if it  refuses a U.S. inspection of the site.
``It raises a strong suspicion,''  Clinton said at a joint news conference with Kim at the Blue House,  the presidential mansion overlooking the capital.
``We need access  to it.''
The foundation of U.S. efforts to ease North Korea's decades-long  hostility toward the South is a 1994 ``agreed framework'' in which  the North halted its nuclear weapons program in exchange for a Western  commitment to build modern nuclear energy sources there.
That deal  would be shattered if the suspect site turned out to be a clandestine  nuclear project.
And that, in turn, would jeopardize preliminary North-South  peace talks that could produce a treaty to replace the shaky armistice  that ended the Korean War in 1953.
Kim, who has moved South Korea  to a ``sunshine'' policy of engaging North Korea on cultural and economic  fronts, firmly said his government supports Clinton on the nuclear  issue.
``We must require full access and ways to ascertain the nature  and the purposes of the construction site,'' Kim said.
``If it is,  in fact, proven that it is nuclear related, we should demand immediate  close down.''
He also said the North must limit its missile development,  citing the ``great shock'' in Japan when the North Koreans test-fired  a missile its way Aug. 31.
In a dinner toast, Kim said that despite  tensions, ``North Korea is cautiously but noticeably taking measures  to increase interaction and cooperation between the South and the  North.''
And Clinton saluted Seoul's battle against Asia's economic  woes.
``I believe Asia will emerge from this present crisis more prosperous,  more stable, more democratic _ thanks in no small measure to Korea's  example.''
After the state dinner, Clinton made a surprise late-night  stop at a concert at the Sejong Culture Center where his younger brother,  Roger, and his band were performing.
The president listened to songs  off stage before his brother introduced the president as ``a very  special person.''
The audience of 2,000 people stood and applauded.
In meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, U.S.  officials were rebuffed in their request to see the suspicious underground  site, which American intelligence officials fear could be a secret  effort to revive the North's nuclear weapons program.
U.S. spy satellite  photos show thousands of workers digging a massive complex.
U.S. special  envoy Charles Kartman said Thursday after the Pyongyang talks that  there was ``compelling evidence'' of an underground nuclear facility.
But in a statement distributed by the U.S. Embassy here Saturday,  Kartman backtracked, saying instead that the United States lacks ``conclusive  evidence'' the site is a nuclear facility.
``There is strong information  that makes us suspicious, but we lack conclusive evidence that the  intended purpose of the underground site is nuclear related and, if  so, what type of nuclear facility it might be,'' Kartman said, offering  a ``clarification'' of his earlier remarks.
Kim said his government  would ``spare no effort in supporting the U.S. endeavor'' to resolve  the nuclear question.
The North Koreans have denied the underground  construction site has any nuclear purpose, and it has demanded a dlrs  300 million payment for proving that.
In remarks in Tokyo on Friday,  Clinton rejected the idea of compensation.
Directing his remarks at  North Korea, Clinton noted the significance of a new tourism deal  that is bringing South Koreans to the North on cruise ships _ an arrangement  touted by Kim as a sign the North may be opening up to its 1950s Korean  War enemy.
To risk that kind of cooperation _ and progress with America  on other issues _ by stonewalling on the suspected nuclear site is  contrary to the North's long-term interests, he said.
``Nothing could  ever be put into that hole in the ground, given our defense partnership  here, nothing could ever be put in that hole in the ground that would  give the North Koreans as much advantage, as much power, as much wealth,  as much happiness, as more of those ships going up there full of people  from here,'' Clinton said.
To underscore the U.S. military commitment  to South Korea, Clinton was scheduled to venture out of the capital  on Sunday to visit U.S. Army troops at a training range north of Seoul.
He also planned to address American troops at Osan Air Base from a  U-2 spy plane hangar.
North Korean news media on Thursday said the communist nation's military  is on full alert for war with the United States if a dispute over  nuclear inspections comes to blows.
The North's official Korean Central  News Agency reported that North Korean soldiers and people of all  walks of life were ``on full alert for war.''
North Korea typically  sends out belligerent rhetoric, especially when it enters high-stake  talks with Washington.
The United States and North Korea are set to  resume talks Friday about inspections of an underground North Korean  site suspected of being used to produce nuclear weapons.
KCNA broadcasts  brimmed with anti-American saber-rattling.
``Our People's Army will  blow up the U.S. territory as a whole'' if the United States starts  a war on the divided Korean Peninsula, Vice Defense Minister Jong  Chang Ryol was quoted as saying Thursday.
The general staff of the  North Korean military accused Washington on Wednesday of pushing the  situation in Korea to the ``brink of war'' by demanding inspections  and talks aimed at preventing Pyongyang from developing nuclear weapons  and long-range missiles.
``Under the prevailing touch-and-go situation,  the Korean People's Army is now bracing itself for a fight against  the U.S. imperialist aggressors,'' KCNA quoted Jong as saying.
The  agency also quoted various party officials, plant managers, even museum  curators as pledging a ``thousandfold revenge'' or vowing to arm themselves  with the ``spirit of human bombs and of suicidal attack.''
Washington  demands unconditional inspections of the North's underground project.
But North Korea asked Washington to pay dlrs 300 million for the right  to inspect the site.
Concerns that North Korea was developing long-range  missiles capable of striking all of Japan and parts of the United  States escalated when North Korea fired a rocket on Aug. 31.
Believed  to be a test of its Taepo Dong missile, the rocket flew over Japan  and landed in the Pacific Ocean.
The North's 1.1 million-strong military  is the world's fifth largest.
It forms the backbone of the North Korean  government, with leader Kim Jong Il ruling the country as the head  of the military.
North Korea has agreed to receive a U.S. delegation next month to  discuss American concerns about the construction of a vast underground  complex that is widely feared to house a nuclear weapons program,  the State Department said on Wednesday.
The delegation, led by Charles  Kartman, will press for access to the site, which American intelligence  agencies believe could be the centerpiece of an effort to revive a  frozen nuclear arms program.
``We've made clear to the North Koreans  that any attempt by North Korea to pursue a nuclear weapons development  program would be unacceptable,'' the State Department spokesman, James  Rubin, said.
The talks in Pyongyang, the capital, he added, ``are  aimed at completely satisfying U.S. concerns about the suspect construction.''
American intelligence agencies fear that building the complex could  be an effort to break out of a four-year-old pact in which North Korea  pledged to give up its nuclear-weapons program in exchange for billions  of dollars in aid from the United States, South Korea and Japan.
American  officials have said spy satellites have recently photographed thousands  of North Koreans around the huge site 25 miles northeast of Yongbyon,  the nuclear center where North Korea was believed to have stockpiled  enough plutonium before the 1994 accords to build six or more bombs.
Although they have not explained exactly why the government is building  the complex, North Korean officials have denied that it would be used  to develop nuclear weapons.
The official North Korean press agency  said last week that the government was building ``civilian underground  structures on which any `doubt' cannot be cast'' and suggested that  American officials would be allowed to inspect the complex if they  pressed for access.
``If the U.S. side persists in inspecting our  underground structures,'' the press agency said, ``we can show it  to them.''
Rubin said the United States had received no formal assurances  that Kartman, the American special envoy for Korean nuclear issues,  and his delegation would be allowed to inspect the site on the trip,  which is to begin on Nov. 16.
``We are beginning a discussion with  them in which we will demand access,'' Rubin said.
``The history of  the U.S.-North Korea discussions involves usually a lengthy discussion  process before there is agreement to our requirements.
So we are not  expecting to walk in one day and be able to have access the next.''
The trip was announced as signs grow about a relative warming of relations  between the United States and North Korea.
Representatives of the  United States, China and the two Koreas met recently in Geneva and  agreed to steps to reduce tension on the Korean Peninsula.
In September  the United States pledged to provide an additional 300,000 tons of  grain to North Korea, which has for years been crippled by severe  food shortages.
In addition the White House disclosed that the United  States would provide more heavy fuel oil promised to North Korea under  the 1994 agreement, despite concerns that North Korea may intend to  revive its nuclear program.
American officials have said the activity  near Yongbyon may not yet have technically violated the accord, because  there is no evidence that North Korea has begun pouring cement for  a new reactor or a reprocessing plant to convert nuclear waste to  bomb-grade plutonium.
A congressman who visited remote parts of North Korea last week said  Saturday that the food and health situation there was desperate and  deteriorating, and that millions of North Koreans might have starved  to death in the last few years.
The congressman, Tony Hall, D-Ohio,  who has had a longtime interest in world hunger, passed through Tokyo  on his return to the United States and showed photographs he had taken  of North Korean children with patchy hair, protruding bones, open  sores and other signs of severe malnutrition.
Hall also brought back  a bag of what officials called ``substitute food'' being distributed  by a government food station: dried leaves and straw, so coarse that  even cattle would normally turn away.
``They grind it into powder  and make it into noodles,'' Hall said.
The noodles have no nutrition  and are indigestible, leaving people holding their aching stomachs,  he said.
North Korea has admitted that it is facing serious economic  difficulties, but there have been sharply diverging assessments of  how serious these are.
Some visitors with the United Nations and other  organizations have said that the food situation seems to be a bit  better now than a year or two ago.
Hall said that the divergence might  have arisen because in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, life did  seem to be slightly better than during his three previous trips to  North Korea.
But in rural areas where foreigners are not often allowed  to visit, he added, the overall situation is worse than ever.
Based  on visits to four hospitals, Hall also emphasized that public health  care had declined sharply.
In one hospital, assistants were holding  down a patient while surgeons conducted a stomach operation without  electric lights or anesthesia.
Ordinary North Koreans are suffering,  in part, because their government's hard-line policies have alienated  would-be donors and aid agencies.
The United Nations has repeatedly  appealed for relief aid for North Korea, but the latest appeal has  raised less than one-third of the target.
In September, Doctors Without  Borders announced that it was pulling its staff of 13 from North Korea  because it feared that its aid was going to the politically connected  rather than to the most needy.
North Korea does not release mortality  figures or health statistics, but Hall said that the United Nations  had gathered and would soon release data indicating that 30 percent  of North Korean children under age 2 are acutely malnourished and  that 67 percent of all children are physically stunted.
Hall said  he thought that overall at least 1 million people had died and that  the total was probably closer to 3 million.
In an indication of the  seriousness with which professional demographers view the situation,  the U.S. Bureau of the Census recently published estimates suggesting  that North Korea's population peaked in 1995 at 21.55 million and  has since fallen to 21.23 million this year.
That would be a decline  of 320,000 over three years, a period when North Korea's population  would have been expected to grow by about 925,000 people, based on  the population growth rate of the early 1990s.
Nicholas Eberstadt,  an American specialist on North Korean population figures, says that  there simply is not enough hard information for him to estimate the  death toll from the famine.
But he notes one political tidbit: North  Korea's constitution stipulates that there should be one delegate  to the country's ``people's assembly'' for every 30,000 citizens.
This year's assembly did not expand as previous ones did, but rather  had just 687 delegates, the same as the previous assembly held in  1990.
While Eberstadt counsels caution, that could mean that North  Korea's population, after eight years in which it had been expected  to add several million people, is now back to 20.6 million people  or fewer.
The United States has been supplying grain to North Korea,  but strains are growing over a secret underground complex in the North  that some experts worry may be the heart of a new nuclear weapons  program.
The United States warned last week that the ``agreed framework''  that is the basis for its relations with North Korea will be in jeopardy  unless the North lets American experts visit the underground complex  and resolve their doubts.
North Korea has said that it will show off  the complex only if Washington promises that if the complex is not  a nuclear one, it will pay for ``vilifying us and impairing our prestige.''
Washington refuses to pay, and North Korea is warning that the standoff  could lead the agreement to fall apart.
``Their shameless and wicked  demand is an open infringement upon our sovereignty and wanton interference  in our internal affairs,'' declared North Korea's leading newspaper,  Rodong Sinmun.
North Korea has demanded that the United States pay hundreds of millions  of dollars for the right to inspect a huge underground center that  U.S. intelligence analysts fear houses a nuclear-weapons program,  Clinton administration officials said Wednesday.
The United States  rejected the request during meetings this week in Pyongyang, the North  Korean capital, between North Korean officials and a U.S. government  delegation.
``As we expected, the North Koreans brought up the issue  of compensation, and we flatly rejected it,'' said State Department  Spokesman James Rubin.
Asked how much money the North Koreans had  demanded, Rubin said payment of the fee was ``so not on as a possibility  that I don't care to get into the figures.''
Other administration  officials said the fee would have been hundreds of millions of dollars;  one put it at $300 million.
The North Koreans have denied that the  complex, which is being built on a mountainside about 25 miles northeast  of Yongbyon, the former North Korean nuclear research center, is intended  to be used for a nuclear weapons program.
They have repeatedly said  U.S. inspectors could visit the site as long as Washington agreed  to pay a large fee in compensation for what the North Koreans describe  as the administration's slander.
The North Korean representative at  the United Nations, Kim Chang Guk, said last week that the United  States could inspect the site ``on condition that when it is confirmed  not to be a nuclear facility, the United States should pay compensation  for slandering and defaming my country.''
U.S. intelligence agencies  fear that by building the complex, North Korea may have decided to  abandon a four-year-old agreement with the United States in which  North Korea pledged to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange  for billions of dollars in aid.
The U.S. delegation, led by Charles  Kartman, President Clinton's special envoy on North Korean issues,  left Pyongyang on Wednesday after 12 hours of negotiations over three  days with a team from the North Korean Foreign Ministry.
The talks  ended as Clinton began a trip to Asia that will include a visit to  South Korea, where the issue of the North Korean construction site  is expected to be among the major topics discussed with President  Kim Dae-jung.
Rubin said the U.S. delegation to North Korea had pressed  for access to the site.
``We told them that access to the site is  essential,'' he said.
``We've expected that this would be difficult,  and we told the North Koreans, as we've said before, that verbal assurances,  as they are wont to give, are simply unacceptable.''
U.S. officials  have said the construction of the underground site may not yet have  technically violated the accord, because there is no evidence that  North Korea has begun pouring cement for a new reactor or a reprocessing  plant to convert nuclear waste to bomb-grade plutonium.
But if the  United States determines that North Korea has revived its nuclear  program, Rubin said, ``it would go against the entire letter and spirit  of the objectives of the agreement, and it would affect the viability  of the agreement.''
The administration has expressed growing concern  over North Korea's intentions after several provocative acts, including  the underground construction near Yongbyon and the test firing last  August of a missile over Japan.
Last week Clinton named former Defense  Secretary William Perry to review U.S. policy toward North Korea.
Administration officials say Perry is being asked to study ways to  salvage the 1994 nuclear agreement with North Korea, which had been  among the administration's proudest achievements in foreign policy.
dictators,  unfriendly authoritarians and consistently annoying allies _ who it  thinks can make an enormous contribution to peace, security or America's  agenda by taking early retirement, at a minimum.
In the 1950s, the  leftist leaders of Iran and Guatamala made the Top 10, in the '60s  it was populated by Diem and Sukarno and other Southeast Asians.
President  Richard M. Nixon and his advisers infamously agreed at a secret meeting  in the '70s that the best way to deal with the government of Salvador  Allende Gossens in Chile was to ``make the economy scream.''
Diplomatic  etiquette, though, has usually discouraged shouting America's enemies  list from the White House rooftop.
After all, foreign policy isn't  about personalities, right?
But last week, driven by frustration,  or anxiety, or perhaps the lure of sounding tough for cameras, the  Clinton administration piped up, twice.
In very different situations,  in opposite corners of the world, the United States spoke loudly because  it can't find a stick.
Sunday, hours after he called off an attack  on Iraq, Clinton finally volunteered the obvious, that the focus of  U.S. policy toward Iraq is the removal of President Saddam Hussein  _ what Clinton called supporting the ``forces of change in Iraq.''
No matter that covert efforts to do just that have failed miserably.
The bigger surprise came Monday, when polite-to-a-fault Al Gore used  his visit to Malaysia for an Asian economic summit meeting to throw  U.S. support behind protesters calling for ``reformasi,'' the code  word on the streets of Kuala Lumpur for dumping Prime Minister Mahathir  Mohamed.
He has long been a burr in Washington's side, denouncing  America, its currency traders and its Jews.
He recently imprisoned  his Western-thinking finance minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who has suddenly  become Asia's most visible jailed dissident.
But Mahathir is no Saddam,  not by a long shot.
Gore's aides insist that his speech was a call  for reform, not a demand that Mahathir step down.
But it wasn't interpreted  that way.
The New Zealanders called it ``megaphone diplomacy.''
The  Malaysian government called it ``disgusting'' and an ``interference  in internal affairs.''
Predictably, executives of several U.S. companies  that have flocked to Kuala Lumpur told the Malaysians that Gore was  rude, while assuring Washington that he had uttered words that needed  to be said.
Whatever the wisdom of the Gore's words, they raised the  question of what it takes these days for the world's most powerful  nation to begin publicly suggesting that it's time for a nettlesome  leader to go.
Because there is no official list, there are no real  criteria for getting on it.
Some leaders mysteriously escape mention,  like Kim Jong Il of North Korea.
President Clinton is spending the  weekend on the Korean Peninsula, staring across the demilitarized  zone at a dangerous state that everyone suspects is attempting to  break out of its 1994 agreement to freeze its nuclear weapons projects,  in return for billions in Western energy aid.
Yet Washington has never  called on the starving North Koreans to revolt against Kim's repressive  regime.
His government, taking a page out of the Saddam playbook,  suggested last week that if the United States really wants to look  at a mountain tunnel that the Pentagon believes is a nuclear installation  in the making, it should write a check for another $300 million.
No  one even called for Kim's removal when, a few months ago, he lobbed  a three-stage missile over Japan just to show he knew how.
``The rules  for calling for the end of a regime are pretty murky,'' said Richard  Feinberg, a professor at the University of California at San Diego  who served in the Clinton administration's first term.
``When they  really want to push someone out, it is because that country is part  of a larger strategic concern at the time.
But the country itself  usually doesn't have great strategic weight'' _ it's another matter  to call for a change of leadership in Beijing or Moscow _ ``and it  helps if there is some kind of domestic opposition that we can point  to.''
Clinton's call for Saddam's ouster last weekend created barely  a ripple because, after all, he is a proven murderer and an avid stockpiler  of anthrax and plutonium (even if Brent Scowcroft, who was President  George Bush's national security adviser, insisted last week that Saddam  nowadays is simply ``an irritant, an annoyance, a pest and a problem,  but not a threat to the region at the moment'').
Mahathir, however,  is far more complex case.
He's a prime example of how opposing Washington's  political and economic agenda for an interconnected world can move  a leader from the list of authoritarians whom Washington tolerates  to the list of authoritarians who have outlived their usefulness.
Like other Asian strongmen _ Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines and  Suharto of Indonesia come to mind _ he was useful when the fear was  that Malaysia would become a communist domino.
But he also seemed  eminently tolerable long after the Cold War was over.
He has never  been accused of enormous corruption.
He turned his country into a  model of competitiveness, and Malaysia became the exemplar of the  ``big emerging markets'' that Clinton's Commerce Department touted  until things went sour last year.
Sure, he was always prickly.
But  he is no terrorist or killer _ U.S. companies have flocked to his  country, and say they want to stay _ and his iron control over political  discourse is no stronger than in neighboring Singapore.
Just this  summer, U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin paid him an ostensibly  friendly, if strained, visit and made no reference to human rights.
That all changed when Ibrahim was arrested and beaten in jail.
He  has long been an advocate of the Western-style solutions to economic  turmoil _ more openness, more freedom _ and the protest movement against  Mahathir only surfaced once he was in jail.
Gore leapt on that opportunity  _ particularly striking because, in the case of Indonesia earlier  this year, it took the administration months to come to the conclusion  that President Suharto had to go.
He went.
President Clinton made an unusual, direct appeal to North Korea on  Saturday to set aside any nuclear ambitions in favor of strengthening  ties to South Korea and the United States.
The appeal came during  a meeting with reporters at which he also counseled patience over  Iraq's refusal to comply with a request from weapons inspectors.
``I  think it's important that we not overreact here on the first day,''  Clinton said in response to reports that Iraq had balked at a request  by U.N. inspectors for documents on its weapons program.
But, speaking  at a joint appearance with South Korean President Kim Dae Jung, Clinton  called the requested documents ``quite important'' and said Iraq had  ``some affirmative obligations'' to help weapons inspectors.
Aides  to Clinton denied that his comments represented any softening toward  Iraq.
They said that because the situation was still developing and  the president was preparing for meetings with Kim he had not been  briefed in detail on Iraq's resistance when he appeared before reporters  Saturday.
National Security Adviser Sandy Berger said the administration  was consulting with other members of the U.N. Security Council about  the matter.
If Iraq fails to meet its obligations under U.N. resolutions,  he said, ``We obviously are prepared to act.''
Last weekend, Clinton  called off a strike against Iraq minutes before it was to begin, delayed  his departure for Asia to monitor the crisis and said that U.S. forces  remained poised to strike if Iraq reneged on its agreement to let  U.N. weapons inspectors do their work.
In his appearance with Kim,  the president addressed a handful of questions that ranged from North  Korea to Indonesia to whether the Congress should punish him over  the Lewinsky scandal.
Before leaving Washington for this five-day  trip to Japan, Korea and Guam, he drew a parallel between the governments  of Iraq and North Korea, saying, ``We must be no less concerned by  North Korea's weapons activities.''
The Clinton administration is  urgently seeking to inspect a vast construction site in North Korea  that it believes may be the beginnings of a nuclear weapons plant.
Saturday, Clinton called that site, together with North Korea's test  firing in August of a missile over Japan, ``cause for deep concern.''
But the Clinton administration is trying a very different approach  toward North Korea than toward Iraq, partly at the urging of Kim,  who is pursuing a ``sunshine policy'' of engagement with the North.
As Clinton and Kim delivered prepared statements and answered questions  Saturday, Clinton became most animated in describing what he called  ``a very beautiful picture'' that he happened to spot after turning  on his hotel television on arriving in Seoul on Friday night: film  of a cruise ship recently permitted to carry South Koreans on a tour  into the North.
``I ask the North Koreans to think about this,'' he  said, arguing that Kim's policy of engagement with the North presented  them with a great opportunity.
``Nothing could ever be put in that  hole in the ground that would give the North Koreans as much advantage,  as much power, as much wealth, as much happiness as more of those  ships going up there full of people from here.''
The Clinton administration  fears that the construction site may be evidence that North Korea  has abandoned a 1994 pledge to the United States to give up its nuclear  weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid.
The North  Koreans have denied that the complex is intended to help build nuclear  weapons.
But they have demanded that the United States pay $300 million  to inspect it, a request rejected this week by a U.S. delegation to  Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
The new complex is being built  on a mountainside about 25 miles northeast of Yongbyon, the former  North Korean nuclear research center.
Kim continued Saturday to emphasize  his hopes for a new opening toward North Korea.
But he said, ``We  will not tolerate any possible attempt of North Korea to proliferate  nuclear weapons, missiles and other weapons of mass destruction.''
The Clinton administration plans to resume negotiating with North  Korea over inspecting the site in December.
In addition to strategies  for easing the Asian financial crisis, Clinton discussed North Korea  during a visit to Tokyo on Thursday and Friday.
The subject of North  Korea consumed most of his two hours of meetings with Kim here Saturday  at the Blue House, which contains the Korean president's office and  home.
The administration has been criticized in Congress and in this  region for letting its policy on North Korea drift, but Clinton called  that policy a ``clear-eyed mix'' of diplomacy and deterrence.
He said  that so far the 1994 agreement had worked, because without it ``North  Korea already would have produced a sizable amount of weapons-grade  plutonium.''
Under pressure from congressional critics, Clinton last  week appointed William Perry, his former defense secretary, to review  his policy on North Korea.
On other matters, Clinton declined to criticize  the government of Indonesia for using force to crack down on protesters  there, saying that he did not ``have enough facts at this moment to  give you the right answer.''
But he said he hoped there would be ``no  backsliding'' in Indonesia.
Clinton followed his appearance with Kim  with a visit to the National Folk Museum here, where he conducted  an hourlong conversation with six Korean academics, businessmen and  union leaders about the troubled state of Korea's economy and its  impact on the society.
He attended a state dinner Saturday night,  before stopping by a concert where his brother, Roger, a musician,  happened to be performing.
Clinton repeatedly congratulated Kim for  his efforts at economic reform, noting that interest rates had fallen  here and the currency had stabilized.
But he also pressed Kim during  their private meetings to restructure the five huge conglomerates,  or chaebols, that account for some 40 percent of the Korean economy.
In describing the leaders' conversation, Berger called restructuring  the chaebols ``perhaps the most serious remaining problem in the South  Korean economy.''
Clinton said during the economic forum Saturday  afternoon that he felt impatient about South Korea's failure to act  on the chaebols.
It may be necessary to proceed slowly with the restructuring,  he said, ``but they should begin.''
On Sunday, Clinton plans to visit  some of the 37,000 American troops stationed here.
In a green aviator jacket and black cap, President Clinton spent Sunday  visiting American troops stationed in South Korea.
He promoted a private,  sang birthday greetings to a sergeant major and described the threats  to his hopes for peaceful engagement with North Korea.
``Lately, signs  of danger have intensified,'' Clinton said in an address to airmen  here, standing before a gunmetal gray F-16 and A-10 parked nose-to-nose.
``So we must remain vigilant.
And thanks to you, we are.''
For all  his eagerness to talk about information-age economic dangers like  quicksilver currency flows, Clinton has returned again and again during  his five-day trip to Japan and South Korea to the old-style regional  military threat posed by North Korea.
The subject consumed most of  his meetings with President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea on Saturday  and formed the backdrop for his visits with the troops Sunday.
``It's  kind of tense around here,'' said John Kelley, a 26-year-old airman  from Wisconsin, describing life on this base.
``You know you're only  four minutes away from a missile.''
In his speech, Clinton pointed  to recent North Korean missile tests, incursions into the south and  a mysterious underground site that may be a nuclear weapons installation  as signs of the potential threat.
And he compared North Korea to Iraq,  saying that North Korea was ``also a major concern'' because of its  chemical and biological weapons.
Until North Korea ``fully commits  itself to a constructive role on this peninsula,'' he said, ``we must  remain ready.''
Clinton restated his support for Kim's policy of engagement  with North Korea, though, saying that there were ``some hopeful signs''  to justify it.
He pointed to talks that began over the summer between  the American military command in Korea and the North Korean military  to prevent problems along the demilitarized zone between the south  and north.
Clinton planned to leave South Korea early Monday and return  to Washington Monday night, after paying a visit to Guam.
On a bright  but icy afternoon, Clinton was warmly received here by soldiers in  camouflage and black boots, some of whom waited almost three hours,  shifting from foot to foot and rubbing their hands.
The official crowd  estimate was only 3,500, but the turnout seemed even smaller.
The  base, about 30 miles south of Seoul, is one of two major American  airfields in Korea, housing 7,500 airmen.
Others who wanted to see  the president were bused in from sites that are hours away.
Before  flying here by helicopter, Clinton attended church on an Army base  in Seoul, then visited a firing range just 12 miles from the demilitarized  zone.
In a brief ceremony there, he promoted Matt Prickett of West  Liberty, Ohio, from private first class to specialist.
And he led  the troops in a round of ``Happy Birthday'' for Sgt. Maj. Charles  Thomas of Wilson, N.C., who turned 45 on Sunday.
``It definitely caught  me off guard,'' Thomas said.
Acknowledging his mistakes, Clinton supports Democrat candidates and speaks at fundraisers.
He backs Mary Boyle of Ohio in her bid for U.S. Senate.
Democrat candidates try to limit the effect of the Lewinsky debacle on their campaigns.
A N.Y. labor union backs Democrat Schumer to keep Republicans from gaining a 60-seat majority.
Sen. D'Amato sidesteps queries about Clinton's impeachment on the campaign trail.
A gay group may back D'Amato, the prospect of which is upsetting Democrats.
House Republicans are using idle time to get votes on issues to help their campaigns.
The National Republican Congressional Committee sponsors deceptive fundraising calls.
In addition to the usual factors that prevail in Congressional elections, this year's is complicated by the uncertain effect of the impending impeachment of President Clinton.
The president has admitted mistakes, but remains a popular campaigner for House Democrats.
In the New York race between D'Amato and Schumer, both are seeking union and gay/lesbian endorsement.
Republican Voinovich hopes to take the seat of retiring John Glenn in Ohio.
A budget agreement between Republican congressional leaders and the White House is needed soon to avoid a government shutdown.
A leadership award from Speaker Gingrich's office is merely a pitch for contributions.
President Clinton's impeachment woes are causing problems for the approaching mid-term elections.
The President stopped apologizing, saying he must "live with the consequences" of his mistakes, and urging democrats to take pride in his achievements.
Democratic candidates hope to contain the Lewinsky debacle while trying to prevent a Republican majority in the Senate.
In New York, the Human Rights Campaign may endorse both candidates.
In Ohio, Republican Voinovich is in a crucial face-off with Democrat Mary Boyles.
Republicans are using a bait-and-switch routine to earn funds from small business.
Their House votes are on topics to boast about back home.
In tight congressional and Senate races leading up to the Nov. 1998 elections, strategists and candidates were unsure how to deal with the Clinton/Lewinsky scandal.
Though the President pointed to his record while stumping, many Democrats, embarrassed by his behavior, distanced themselves from him.
With impeachment a possibility, the Senate races assumed even greater importance.
While it was unlikely the Republicans would win enough Senate seats to remove the President, Democrats feared their opponents could gain a filibuster-proof, 60-seat majority.
The NY senate race between Republican D'Amato and Schumer was one of the tightest in the nation.
In a cocoon of loyal and wealthy supporters, President Clinton said  Friday that he must ``live with the consequences'' of his mistakes,  although he contended that Democrats should take pride in the achievements  of his presidency and take heart from its possibilities.
Clinton has  stopped apologizing for his conduct with Monica Lewinsky, but he has  taken to making glancing, at times humble, references to it, before  moving on to attack the Republican Congress as indifferent to Americans'  needs.
He did so Friday at a series of fund-raisers.
In one deft sentence,  he acknowledged his personal pain while claiming credit for the country's  economic strength, making a compact appeal for both sympathy and support  in an appearance earlier in the day in Cleveland.
After thanking the  gathered donors for the ``very kind personal things'' they had said  to him, the president declared, ``If I had to do it all over again,  every day, I would do it in a heartbeat, to see America where it is  today as compared to six years ago.''
As the applause died away, Clinton  continued, ``I want you to understand, too, that we all have to live  with the consequences of our mistakes in life.''
He added with a chuckle:  ``Most of us don't have to live with it in quite such a public way.
But nobody gets out of life for free.''
To the music of a saxophone  and a hammered dulcimer, Clinton raised about $200,000 over lunch  in a private home in Cleveland for the Democratic Senate candidate  in Ohio, Mary Boyle.
Then he flew to Philadelphia to raise half a  million dollars for the Democratic Party.
By midsummer, the president's  aides were delighted to have persuaded him to condense his fund-raising  remarks to just 10 minutes of policy points and partisan jabbing.
But as his troubles have grown and the mid-term elections have approached,  his free-form remarks have become longer.
In Cleveland on Friday,  he spoke for 26 minutes and here on Friday evening he spoke for almost  20 minutes.
These fund-raising visits have fallen into a pattern since  Clinton's videotaped grand jury testimony on Aug. 17.
He is lauded,  applauded and embraced by his hosts and the donors.
``Mr. President,  these are your friends here today,'' said Tony George, the host of  the Cleveland event, offering the refrain of those who have played  a similar role.
But in Cleveland as elsewhere, protesters who were  scattered along the president's motorcade route were reminders of  calls for his resignation and impeachment, and of the mockery some  are heaping upon his presidency.
At a rally for the president outside  city hall here Friday night a group of Teamsters chanted, ``two more  years.''
Clinton's motorcade route was lined downtown with hundreds  of people, some of them carrying supportive or condemnatory signs.
After an impromptu shopping trip, during which he was greeted with  shouts of ``We love you,'' Clinton told some donors at the beginning  of an impassioned reprise of his Cleveland speech: ``I didn't even  mind the protesters, that's the American way.''
But, he added, he  preferred it when they were in the minority, ``and that seemed to  be the case.''
As he rode into Cleveland, Clinton passed a billboard  for a local radio station, WNCX.
``Lovin', touchin', squeezin',''  it read, the words superimposed on a cartoon of the president with  his arm over Ms. Lewinsky's shoulders, the Washington Monument beside  them.
The president left it to his aides on Friday to respond directly  to the latest gusher of grand jury disclosures in Washington.
Instead,  in his remarks, Clinton spoke with pride of his record and with urgency  about addressing the international economic crisis and the needs of  struggling farmers and schoolchildren.
As he typically does now before  such partisan audiences, he also walked through his political calculation  for the mid-term elections.
Clinton said in Cleveland that Republicans  had bragged privately to him about their prospects.
``They tell me,  `Oh, we're going to do very well, Mr. President, in these mid-terms  because we have so much more money than you do,''' and because Democrats  who turned out to re-elect Clinton would not return to the polls in  an off-year.
That argument, of course, would also insulate Clinton  from any blame for depressing the Democratic vote.
But he often goes  further than that, saying that his predicament could actually help  the Democrats.
Lower-income Democratic voters, he said, might not  bother to vote in a typical election.
``The people that were good  enough to serve you here at this event today, they've got a lot of  hassles in their life,'' he said.
But, he said, ``adversity is our  friend,'' because it can overcome apathy and ``focus us on what is  at issue here.''
What should be at issue, Clinton said, are his achievements  and agenda and the Republicans' record, which he described harshly.
``What have they done?''
he asked in Cleveland.
``They killed the  minimum wage increase for 12 million Americans.
They killed campaign  finance reform.
They killed the tobacco reform legislation.''
In other election years, Reps. David Price and Julia Carson would  have had little in common other than that they were Democrats with  relatively safe seats.
Price is a centrist who has represented this  high-tech district in North Carolina for all but 2 of the last 12  years, a political scientist who has taught at Duke and Yale.
Mrs.  Carson, fairly liberal, is a House freshman who worked her way up  in politics from the grass roots, having been reared in poverty.
But  party officials who opened this election year with high hopes of recapturing  the House are beginning to worry that Democratic incumbents like Price  and Mrs. Carson share something else: greater-than-expected peril  on Election Day.
As in many congressional races, the biggest variable  is the White House scandal, which has injected fear and uncertainty  into campaigns around the country.
Other Democratic incumbents who  Republican officials cite as locked in contests that are more competitive  than expected include Reps. Corrine Brown of Florida, Vic Snyder of  Arkansas, Lois Capps and Ellen Tauscher of California, Martin Frost  of Texas, Melvin Watt of North Carolina, John LaFalce of New York  and Sander Levin of Michigan.
Here in North Carolina's 4th Congressional  District, Price, acknowledging that his own polls showed him in a  tight race, said: ``This is a swing district that is sensitive to  any tide or trend.
It's something you think about a lot in connection  with the president's troubles.''
The efforts of Price and Mrs. Carson  and their opponents' attempts to  capitalize on it _ offer important clues suggesting how Clinton's  problems are influencing the conduct of races around the country.
Many Democrats are straddling a line that seems to shift a bit with  every new scandal-related disclosure: they do not want to appear close  to a president whose conduct embarrasses them, and yet, sensing the  possibility of a public backlash against Republicans, they are weighing  their words carefully and are wary of hopping on any impeachment bandwagon.
And while publicly these Democrats express confidence that the scandal  will have little impact on them, their campaigns are preparing for  the worst by placing greater emphasis than ever on behind-the-efforts  to prod their core constituencies to vote.
In a reflection of the  uncertainty that the Clinton scandal has cast even among Republicans,  the challengers in the Price and Carson districts _ both are political  novices seeking office for the first time _ have differing strategies:  Tom Roberg, a computer executive in Raleigh who is taking on Price,  has broadcast a television commercial exploiting the scandal.
``Tom  Roberg has called for Bill Clinton's resignation,'' the narrator says.
``This is not the time to be silent, Price.
Where do you stand?''
But in Indianapolis, Gary Hofmeister, a conservative jeweler challenging  Mrs. Carson in Indiana's 10th Congressional District, is taking a  more subtle approach: rather than mention the scandal directly, he  notes as often as he can that ``Julia votes with Clinton almost 100  percent of the time.''
Asked why he was not much raising the scandal  directly, Hofmeister said: ``Don't murder somebody when they're in  the process of committing suicide.
There would be a danger if we went  overboard.''
The best evidence of the discomfort of both Price and  Mrs. Carson is that when asked in separate interviews whether they  would want Clinton to campaign in their districts, both said it would  be impossible at this late date for the White House to schedule a  visit.
What if there was a sudden schedule change?
Both paused, squirmed  a bit and mustered answers that were hardly affirmative.
``Given the  president's popularity, I doubt it will hurt me,'' Mrs. Carson said.
And Price?
``I don't think that would be such a good idea,'' he said.
``I've never had a president campaign here, and I wouldn't want to  start this time'' although he is eagerly welcoming Erskine Bowles,  the president's chief of staff and a popular native son in North Carolina,  to stump with him here this Sunday.)
Making strategy for the stump  is further complicated by anecdotal evidence that runs counter to  Democratic fears and Republican hopes.
In three days of campaign stops  here in North Carolina and in Indianapolis, the scandal was rarely  raised by any voter being courted by the candidates of either party.
When a reporter asked about it, many voters said that as appalled  as they were at Clinton's behavior, they had a hard time relating  it to their decision on which way to vote in the congressional elections  in five weeks.
As Hofmeister walked through the parking lot outside  a gun and knife show at the Indiana National Guard Armory in Indianapolis  last Sunday, Billy Derringer, a 57-year-old machinist who is retired  on disability, called him over to express outrage about the millions  of dollars that had been spent to investigate Clinton.
``It's pathetic  to spend all of our money,'' said Derringer, who identified himself  as an independent.
``It shouldn't have gotten this far.''
Hofmeister  tried his best to make the Republicans' case.
``There has to be rule  of law,'' he said.
Mrs. Carson said she hoped that Democrats and swing  voters alike would become so fed up with the Lewinsky inquiry that  the issue might even help her.
To that end, she proudly informs audiences  that she voted against making public the report delivered to the House  by Kenneth Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel.
``I was one  of 63 members of Congress who voted against putting all that filth  on the Internet,'' she said, adding that Starr's inquiry had been  ``a cruel hoax in terms of fiscal responsibility and accountability.''
The Carson campaign is counting on voters like Timothy Daly, a 38-year-old  real estate executive who voted for a Republican two years ago but  now favors Mrs. Carson.
``I'm pulling the Democratic ticket because  I'm tired of it: the right side of the Republican Party is playing  politics,'' Daly said.
``We'd like to see them go on with the people's  business.''
Back here in the 4th District, Price has some reasons  to be worried.
He was first elected to the House in 1986 but, as a  four-term incumbent, was ousted in the Republican sweep of 1994 (only  to win his seat back two years later).
In addition, the district was  redrawn last year to include a large Durham section where voters do  not know him well.
Determined not to be a midterm casualty of Clinton  once again, Price says he is waging the most vigorous get-out-the-vote  ground campaign of his career.
Rather than engage Roberg over the  Clinton scandal, Price has begun broadcasting a television commercial  that emphasizes his central issue: education.
The congressman's advisers  say they intentionally produced an advertisement that appears decidedly  nonpolitical _ it features school children in a play _ in an effort  to break through the television clutter about the scandal.
But the  Price campaign also has a weapon it is holding in reserve, in the  event Roberg appears to be riding the Clinton scandal to advantage:  the incumbent's advisers say they would not be timid about running  commercials underscoring that he earned a divinity degree before getting  his doctorate in political science.
At a coffee with voters in a wealthy  enclave of Raleigh the other night, Roberg opened his remarks by asserting  that Clinton had ``lost the moral authority to lead.''
Yet none of  those assembled asked him about the scandal; they were more concerned  about the state's plans to build a highway near their neighborhood.
It was a surprising scene three months ago when Dennis Rivera, one  of New York City's most left-leaning labor leaders, was singing the  praises of Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato.
Rivera, president of the largest  union in New York City, praised D'Amato for persuading Trent Lott,  the Senate majority leader, to support legislation that financed health  coverage for hundreds of thousands of uninsured children.
It looked  or  at the very minimum stay neutral in this year's U.S. Senate race in  New York.
But on Monday, Rivera's 150,000-member union, 1199, the  National Health and Human Service Employees union, endorsed Rep. Charles  E. Schumer, D-N.Y., and thereby risked D'Amato's wrath.
The endorsement  is risky, labor leaders acknowledge, because angering this powerful  senator could make him far less responsive to labor's needs when unions  turn to him for help in the future if he is re-elected.
Although it  may seem illogical, two words go far to explain why Rivera's union  backed Schumer: Monica Lewinsky.
Largely as a result of the Lewinsky  scandal, Democrats say they suddenly fear that the Republicans will  gain a filibuster-proof, 60-seat majority in the Senate, where the  Republicans have 55 seats to the Democrats' 45.
For labor leaders  like Rivera, the notion of a strong Republican majority is a nightmare.
That fear has helped push other New York unions into Schumer's column,  even though D'Amato had long courted them.
Those unions include the  teamsters' joint council in New York City and District Council 37,  an umbrella group representing 120,000 municipal employees.
Labor  leaders say they fear that with a filibuster-proof Republican majority,  the Senate would push through anti-union legislation, like recently  defeated Republican proposals to curb labor's political spending and  cut financing for the National Labor Relations Board.
``We are worried  about legislation that will not allow the labor movement to survive  into the next century,'' Rivera said.
Alarmed that the Democrats will  lose Senate seats in California, Illinois, Wisconsin, Nevada and South  Carolina, Rivera's union concluded that it was worth backing Schumer.
The decision, Rivera emphasized repeatedly, was not personal but was  based on national considerations.
``Unfortunately, the leadership  of the Republican Party at the national level in the person of Newt  Gingrich and Trent Lott are not necessarily from the same culture  as the Republicans of the Northeast,'' he said.
``They're far more  conservative, far more anti-labor, far more anti-worker, far more  pro-business.
We fear that the Democratic Party faces irrelevance  in the United States Senate if we go below 41 seats.''
Trying to avoid  a rupture with D'Amato, Rivera praised him as ``an effective senator.''
The endorsement could be a boon for Schumer.
Rivera's union and the  teachers' union have labor's strongest political operations in New  York.
In addition, Schumer will get thousands of dollars from the  local as well as use of its renowned phone banks, which can make 50,000  political calls a day.
A spokesman for D'Amato said, ``Al D'Amato's  proud that he's been endorsed by over 100 union federations and locals,  representing more that 400,000 working men and women, and he'll continue  his efforts on behalf of working middle class families.''
His labor  endorsements include the New York City Patrolmen's Benevolent Association  and the New York State Building and Construction Trades Council.
Besides  the backing of 1199, Schumer also received the endorsement of 1199's  parent union, the Service Employees International Union, which has  350,000 members in New York State.
Rivera _ who did not support D'Amato  the last time he ran either _ announced the endorsements during the  founding convention of the New York State Council of the service employees  union.
The convention packed Town Hall, and the new group aims to  make the service employees a power to be reckoned with by bringing  together a dozen union locals to forge a common political and legislative  strategy.
Earlier this year, 1199 merged with the service employees,  and as part of that agreement, Rivera became head of the service employees  in New York State.
It was not a voice mail message that Dr. Marilyn Rymer, a neurologist  in Kansas City, Mo., would routinely delete, even as a registered  Democrat.
``Speaker Newt Gingrich's office,'' it said, was calling  to discuss a ``national leadership award.''
Dr. Rymer has won acclaim  as the director of a prominent stroke-treatment center, but this proposition  seemed particularly grand.
When she returned the call, she said she  was told she would also be named honorary chairman of an elite committee  to advise Gingrich on legislation.
Too good to be true?
Well, Dr.  Rymer would have to pay her own way if the committee should actually  meet, and as an honorary committee chairman, she discovered, she would  be a member of a committee composed entirely of honorary chairmen.
And oh, the speaker wanted a donation of $500 to $1,000 to ``help  our efforts,'' according to a transcript of a similar chat with another  doctor, to elect a bigger Republican majority in the House of Representatives.
With the approach of the midterm elections next month, it turns out  that the National Republican Congressional Committee, which supports  candidates for the House, has been sponsoring similar calls to tens  of thousands of small-business owners, including doctors.
With this  and other fund-raising programs, the committee says it has amassed  $62 million for the elections.
But campaign finance watchdogs say  the solicitations mark a new departure in political fund raising,  one they call akin to the practices of marketing companies like the  Publishers' Clearing House that hook consumers with visions of million-dollar  windfalls to induce them to subscribe to magazines.
By citing the  speaker and promising celebrity and influence, they say, the calls  are a bait-and-switch scheme to seize the attention of people who  might otherwise hang up.
Dr. Rymer says she was incensed.
So was Dr.  Stanley Turecki, a child and family psychiatrist in New York who votes  as an independent and was also called.
``I was absolutely outraged,''  he said.
``Anybody else who would do that would fall into the category  of consumer fraud.''
Kenneth Gross, a Washington lawyer who specializes  in election law and represents both Democratic and Republican clients,  said, ``I have never heard of that particular device.''
But it doesn't  appear illegal, he said, adding, ``It's a fund-raising gimmick to  get attention.''
Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a nonprofit,  nonpartisan advocate of campaign finance reform, said, ``This is a  buyer be damned instead of buyer beware.''
When businesses do it, he added, Congress orders investigations.
``But  this isn't going to be investigated because it's members of Congress  who are doing it.''
Todd Harris, a spokesman for the National Republican  Congressional Committee, said that he had not heard of any complaints  and that there was no intent to deceive.
``The national leadership  award is a part of what we call donor and member fulfillment,'' Harris  said.
``It's part of bringing them into the process.
It's important  that they be recognized for the support they give the party.''
``There's  no quid pro quo'' that people solicited could receive awards for past  contributions, he added.
What most peeves Drs. Rymer and Turecki is  the message left with secretaries and answering machines invoking  Gingrich's ``office'' and proposing the award.
They say they envisioned  a senior aide at a telephone in the speaker's chambers under the Capitol  Dome.
The calls, however, are not placed by aides to Gingrich, by  any of his offices or by anyone in Washington.
They are made by people  with headsets and computers at the home of InfoCision Management Corp.,  a telemarketing firm and Congressional committee client in Akron,  Ohio.
On its Web page, InfoCision says its 1,400 employees operate  1,584 telephone lines and 9 phone centers.
``Every word in the script  is approved by our clients,'' the company says on its Web site.
``Every  conceivable objection is scripted with a powerful rebuttal.''
Besides  telemarketing for businesses, said Jamie Blair, a supervisor at the  center, ``we specialize in helping the Republican Party and conservative  political groups.''
However far they are from Gingrich, the telemarketers  are instructed to answer return calls with: ``Republican Congressional  Committee, Newt Gingrich's office.
May I help you?''
A doctor in Kansas  City, Mo., who is a registered Republican and who declined to be named,  dialed the Gingrich number (888-484-1644) left on answering machines  and secretly recorded the ensuing discussion, which is legal in Missouri.
``We were asked to contact you on behalf of the speaker,'' says a  woman who picked up the call and identified herself as Nancy.
``He  is right now aggressively pushing legislation to cut taxes by as much  as half, and he's also interested in legislation to cut capital gains  to a single rate of 15 percent.''
To assure passage of the legislation,  the speaker wants to increase his Republican majority, she says, adding,  ``To help us do that, the speaker is pulling together a group of individuals  such as yourself and is inviting you to be an honorary chairman on  his advisory council.''
Nancy continues: ``There will be correspondence  with the speaker, such as conference calls.
It's a great way that  he can get your input and thoughts on legislation that does concern  you.
Or maybe surveys or questionnaires.''
Later, Nancy says: ``As  a member of his committee, you would be receiving from the speaker  our national leadership award, which is really quite an honor.
And  to be honest, he will be asking each of our chairmen if they could  help our efforts to increase our majority with a one-time contribution  of $500 or $1,000.
``Now that would be used on the nationwide media  campaign that Newt has undertaken to target those seats we really  need.
And as someone who I'm sure would also benefit from this, could  I tell the speaker he could count on your help?''
The doctor demurs.
``I am a registered, you know, Republican in Kansas,'' she tells Nancy.
``Probably if I were to do something it would be to go through my  own representative.''
Then the doctor tries to ascertain where Nancy  is located.
``Is this congressman Gingrich's office that I'm talking  to?''
the doctor asks.
``The speaker's office,'' says Nancy.
``This  is the speaker's office.''
``That I'm talking to,'' says the doctor,  double-checking.
``Uh-huh,'' Nancy replies.
The law prohibits political  fund-raising calls from federal offices.
Vice President Al Gore is  under a Justice Department investigation for fund-raising calls he  allegedly made from his office in the 1996 presidential campaign.
But the calls can be made from just about anywhere else, including  campaign offices.
Harris said the calls are ``in no way related to  the speaker's OFFICIAL office.''
He added: ``What is more important  is not where the calls get routed.
People are more interested in an  award with the speaker's good name on it than whether the call gets  routed to Washington or Ohio.''
Turecki disagrees.
``I see it as basic  sleaze,'' he said.
The last time George Voinovich ran for office, he won re-election  as Ohio's governor with 72 percent of the vote, stunning even his  most optimistic supporters and setting a 20th-century record for victory  margins in Ohio politics.
This year, Voinovich, a Republican who is  barred from seeking a third term, is running again, this time for  the Senate seat held by John Glenn, a Democrat who is retiring.
And  while there are few who expect Voinovich to repeat his electoral benchmark  of four years ago, politicians of both parties generally acknowledge  that he is well positioned to increase the Republican majority in  the Senate.
That has not prevented Voinovich's Democratic opponent,  Mary Boyle, from undertaking a vigorous campaign.
Ms. Boyle, a former  commissioner in Cuyahoga County, which encompasses Cleveland, is crisscrossing  the nation's seventh-most populous state in what she describes as  a grass-roots campaign that, while operating on a comparative shoestring,   President Clinton foremost among them _ on the campaign trail.
Glenn,  the former astronaut who is preparing to return to space this month  at the age of 77, has not made an endorsement in the Senate race.
Like many candidates this year, Ms. Boyle, 55, is campaigning hard  on the issue of education, seeking to portray Voinovich, 61, as a  lackluster steward who allowed the state's schools to decline.
``He  promised to be the education governor,'' said Ms. Boyle.
``But after  seven and a half years he has failed the students of this state.''
Her role in the campaign, she said, ``is to remind the people of the  state of Ohio that George Voinovich made a promise and that he didn't  deliver on it.''
Specifically, she discusses a decision last year  by the Ohio Supreme Court that cited wide disparities in the quality  of the state's schools and ruled unconstitutional the formula for  funding them.
She has also attacked her Republican opponent for supporting  a proposal to raise the state's sales tax by one percent.
Under that  plan, half the additional funds would have been used for school improvement  with the remainder earmarked for reducing property taxes.
That statewide  ballot initiative last May proved to be wildly unpopular, with about  80 percent of the voters opposing it.
While the topics of taxes and  education are hot ones this political season in Ohio, it is not clear  that Ms. Boyle's emphasis on them has helped her campaign.
Despite  some narrowing in the opinion polls, she is still trailing Voinovich  by 10 percentage points in some polls and as much as 18 points in  others.
There is also a sharp fund-raising disparity.
Ms. Boyle, who  is running her first statewide race and has widespread union support,  has raised nearly $2 million so far, far less than the nearly $7 million  Voinovich has taken in.
Also, Voinovich, a former lieutenant governor,  has been on statewide ballots five times over the last 20 years and  thus is the better-known candidate.
The electoral dynamics of Ohio  are also aiding Voinovich.
The northern half of the state, with its  history of industrial, unionized cities, has a tradition of voting  largely for Democratic candidates, while the southern tier of the  state is considered more conservative and typically leans Republican.
But Voinovich and Ms. Boyle share the same home terrain, depriving  Ms. Boyle of the geographic advantage that often accompanies Democratic  candidates.
Indeed, as a boy, Voinovich once delivered newspapers  to the Boyle home in the working-class Collinwood section of Cleveland.
And Voinovich, a former mayor of Cleveland, has developed a reputation  as a moderate Republican who works well with Democrats.
Voinovich,  while campaigning vigorously himself, is keeping a full schedule of  official duties, assuming the role of the experienced, elected official.
``If I get into the Senate, I will probably know more about domestic  policy than any member of the Senate,'' he said in an interview on  Wednesday in Canton, sandwiched between a ribbon-cutting ceremony  and a fund-raising reception at a vacuum cleaner museum.
``As mayor,  I had my nose rubbed into the problems of urban America and was fairly  successful in dealing with them.
And, as governor, I have dealt with  the problems of Medicaid, welfare and education.
I'm the only person  in the United States who has been president of the National League  of Cities and chairman of the National Governors Association.''
To  his opponent's charges on his record on education, Voinovich is dismissive.
``I'm probably the only Republican in the United States who has been  endorsed by the Ohio Education Association and National Education  Association,'' he said, adding that Ms. Boyle was a member of the  state Legislature during the period cited in the Supreme Court ruling.
``Mary Boyle was vice chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and  a member of the Democratic leadership during those years,'' Voinovich  said.
``They did nothing to fix the buildings, they did nothing for  technology and the urban school districts.''
Ms. Boyle, who has not  yet begun to run campaign commercials on television, said her status  as the underdog had ``allowed me to be more focused, more intense.''
Pausing after a campaign fund-raising breakfast with former Democratic  Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey here on Wednesday, Ms. Boyle said:  ``This has been a marathon and it's been pretty much uphill.
But now,  we're down to the last three miles.
It's a tough race.''
The last time George Voinovich ran for office, he won re-election  as Ohio's governor with 72 percent of the vote, stunning even his  most optimistic supporters and setting a 20th-century record for victory  margins in Ohio politics.
This year, Voinovich, a Republican who is  barred from seeking a third term, is running again, this time for  the Senate seat held by John Glenn, a Democrat who is retiring.
And  while there are few who expect Voinovich to repeat his electoral benchmark  of four years ago, politicians of both parties generally acknowledge  that he is well positioned to increase the Republican majority in  the Senate.
That has not prevented Voinovich's Democratic opponent,  Mary Boyle, from undertaking a vigorous campaign.
Ms. Boyle, a former  commissioner in Cuyahoga County, which encompasses Cleveland, is crisscrossing  the nation's seventh-most populous state in what she describes as  a grass-roots campaign that, while operating on a comparative shoestring,   President Clinton foremost among them _ on the campaign trail.
Glenn,  the former astronaut who is preparing to return to space this month  at the age of 77, has not made an endorsement in the Senate race.
Like many candidates this year, Ms. Boyle, 55, is campaigning hard  on the issue of education, seeking to portray Voinovich, 61, as a  lackluster steward who allowed the state's schools to decline.
``He  promised to be the education governor,'' said Ms. Boyle.
``But after  seven and a half years he has failed the students of this state.''
Her role in the campaign, she said, ``is to remind the people of the  state of Ohio that George Voinovich made a promise and that he didn't  deliver on it.''
Specifically, she discusses a decision last year  by the Ohio Supreme Court that cited wide disparities in the quality  of the state's schools and ruled unconstitutional the formula for  funding them.
She has also attacked her Republican opponent for supporting  a proposal to raise the state's sales tax by one percent.
Under that  plan, half the additional funds would have been used for school improvement  with the remainder earmarked for reducing property taxes.
That statewide  ballot initiative last May proved to be wildly unpopular, with about  80 percent of the voters opposing it.
While the topics of taxes and  education are hot ones this political season in Ohio, it is not clear  that Ms. Boyle's emphasis on them has helped her campaign.
Despite  some narrowing in the opinion polls, she is still trailing Voinovich  by 15 percentage points in some polls and as much as 20 points in  others.
There is also a sharp fund-raising disparity.
Ms. Boyle, who  is running her first statewide race and has widespread union support,  has raised nearly $2 million so far, far less than the nearly $7 million  Voinovich has taken in.
Also, Voinovich, a former lieutenant governor,  has been on statewide ballots five times over the last 20 years and  thus is the better-known candidate.
The electoral dynamics of Ohio  are also aiding Voinovich.
The northern half of the state, with its  history of industrial, unionized cities, has a tradition of voting  largely for Democratic candidates, while the southern tier of the  state is considered more conservative and typically leans Republican.
But Voinovich and Ms. Boyle share the same home terrain, depriving  Ms. Boyle of the geographic advantage that often accompanies Democratic  candidates.
Indeed, as a boy, Voinovich once delivered newspapers  to the Boyle home in the working-class Collinwood section of Cleveland.
And Voinovich, a former mayor of Cleveland, has developed a reputation  as a moderate Republican who works well with Democrats.
Voinovich,  while campaigning vigorously himself, is keeping a full schedule of  official duties, assuming the role of the experienced, elected official.
``If I get into the Senate, I will probably know more about domestic  policy than any member of the Senate,'' he said in an interview on  Wednesday in Canton, sandwiched between a ribbon-cutting ceremony  and a fund-raising reception at a vacuum cleaner museum.
``As mayor,  I had my nose rubbed into the problems of urban America and was fairly  successful in dealing with them.
And, as governor, I have dealt with  the problems of Medicaid, welfare and education.
I'm the only person  in the United States who has been president of the National League  of Cities and chairman of the National Governors Association.''
To  his opponent's charges on his record on education, Voinovich is dismissive.
``I'm probably the only Republican in the United States who has been  endorsed by the Ohio Education Association and National Education  Association,'' he said, adding that Ms. Boyle was a member of the  state Legislature during the period cited in the Supreme Court ruling.
``Mary Boyle was vice chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and  a member of the Democratic leadership during those years,'' Voinovich  said.
``They did nothing to fix the buildings, they did nothing for  technology and the urban school districts.''
Ms. Boyle, who has not  yet begun to run campaign commercials on television, said her status  as the underdog had ``allowed me to be more focused, more intense.''
Pausing after a campaign fund-raising breakfast with former Democratic  Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey here on Wednesday, Ms. Boyle said:  ``This has been a marathon and it's been pretty much uphill.
But now,  we're down to the last three miles.
It's a tough race.''
Nearly 60 years behind the times, the House voted Friday to condemn  the Nazi-Soviet nonaggression pact of 1939.
The measure, a nonbinding  resolution, was brought to the floor by Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill.
He is of Lithuanian descent, has a pocket of Lithuanians in his hometown  of Collinsville and wants to try to highlight his support for the  Baltic states' past efforts against Soviet repression.
Shimkus' measure  is an example of how members of Congress are spending their time as  they stand idle and wait for Republican leaders to reach agreement  on spending bills with the White House, thus avoiding a government  shutdown and allowing them to go home and campaign for the November  elections.
With time on their hands, many Republicans are using the  House floor as their personal stage to elicit votes on topics that  they can boast about to the folks back home.
Most of these matters  have little chance of finding their way into law, but members hope  to turn them to their advantage on Election Day.
There are plenty  of other items whose sponsors hope will not attract attention.
These  tend to be special-interest matters that members hope will escape  scrutiny in the rush to leave town.
The sponsors of these measures  now have the added advantage of the impeachment inquiry, which has  been preoccupying Congress, the news media and the public and giving  them cover to move their pet causes quietly into the gigantic omnibus  package that Congress will eventually present to Clinton for signing.
These quieter measures include one proposed by Mississippi's two senators,  Trent Lott and Thad Cochran, both Republicans.
They want agriculture  export credits to buy chickens for Russia, which has bought the chickens  but cannot pay for them.
The chickens are from Mississippi.
Democrats  have little influence in the Republican-controlled Congress.
But some  Democrats are close enough to Republican leaders, and to Republican  goals, that their measures are taken seriously.
These include Rep.  John Murtha, D-Pa., the ranking Democrat on the national security  subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, who is pushing a measure  to increase military pensions.
Perhaps the best example of an attempt  to force a vote for political advantage is a measure that would require  minors to notify their parents if they are seeking contraceptives  from federally funded family planning clinics.
House leaders allowed  the measure to be brought to the floor as a way to appease the more  conservative members, who believe they have been shortchanged by the  budget process.
It passed the House by a vote of 224-200 but has almost  no chance of becoming law.
The Senate does not plan to take it up,  and Clinton would almost certainly veto it.
But Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla.,  said that votes like these were important because they put their sponsors'  ideological foes on the record as opposing something that sounds reasonable,  and that opposition can be used against them in the Nov. 3 election.
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, the New York Republican who is running for re-election,  went to Manhattan's Grand Central Terminal the other morning to accept  an award from mass-transit advocates.
But the reporters who had gathered  there showed little interest in the shiny train car at the senator's  back.
Instead, they repeatedly asked him how he would vote on an impeachment  of President Clinton.
``Look, I'm not going to make any comment with  respect to that subject matter,'' D'Amato responded.
``I am not just  a citizen.
I am a citizen-senator who may be called upon to make a  decision.''
But D'Amato is something else as well: a candidate in  what may be the tightest Senate race in the nation.
And variations  of his elliptical response can be heard in Senate races around the  country, where both Republicans and Democrats are encountering similar  questions.
All of which suggests that after the House voted Thursday  to authorize an impeachment inquiry, this year's 34 races for the  U.S. Senate have become, beyond what they already were, the electoral  equivalent of jury selection.
If the House votes to impeach Clinton,  the matter goes to the Senate, which must decide by a two-thirds majority  whether to convict him and, thus, remove him from office.
As a result,  the Monica Lewinsky matter has suddenly injected a new disruptive  force into the Senate contests.
Voters, even those who support Clinton,  expect their political leaders, Republican or Democratic, to renounce  Clinton's behavior, and candidates have been doing that.
But impeachment  is another matter; most polls show the nation is against it.
The danger  for Senate candidates is that with impeachment now a real possibility,  about which  there is little disagreement _ to the more problematic issue of whether  he should be removed from office.
For most of the strategists involved  in the races, there is little guidance on how to handle the impeachment  issue.
Advisers to candidates of both parties said in interviews last  week that they were perplexed and worried, unsure what they can or  should do on the issue to gain the advantage _ or guard against harm.
``I can't tell how this one is going to go,'' said Mike Russell, a  spokesman for the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee.
``This  is a very surreal environment.''
Of the 34 Senate seats in play, 18  are held by Democrats and 16 by Republicans, who now hold 55 seats  in all.
Republicans would have to win 28 of the 34 races to produce  the 67 votes necessary for conviction, assuming such a vote were to  go along party lines.
Only an electoral catastrophe for the Democrats,  which seems almost unthinkable, could produce such a huge loss.
Jennifer  Duffy, who follows Senate races for the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan  newsletter, said that so far, at least, none of the Senate candidates  has made an explicit appeal for votes based on how they would vote  on a presidential jury.
But she and others are wondering if this may  be about to change.
This is difficult ground to measure.
One of the  central questions of this political year has been how Clinton's dealings  with Ms. Lewinsky might affect turnout.
For a long time, politicians  assumed that dispirited Democrats would stay home as a rebuke to Clinton,  just as many Republicans did in November 1974, three months after  President Richard M. Nixon resigned.
But now some analysts wonder  if the partisan fight in Congress last week might have the opposite  effect among some Democrats.
``That's the problem,'' said Stuart Rothenberg,  the editor of an independent political newsletter in Washington.
``It's  not that we don't know, and that the politicians don't know, where  the general public stands on impeachment.
The problem is that we don't  know where the electorate stands on impeachment.''
And asking voters  to think ahead to an impeachment proceeding as they cast their ballots  in a Senate race is, in the words of Stuart Stevens, a Republican  consultant, ``a double bank-shot.''
Such strategies, he said, tend  to work only with a small number of single-minded or sophisticated  voters.
Against that complicated backdrop, the prevailing thinking  is that the use of the impeachment issue will vary from race to race,  state to state and week to week, depending on the circumstances of  the candidates and the composition of the electorate.
If Democrats  try to turn the image of Clinton in the dock to their advantage, it  would be in states with a Democratic edge or with sizable numbers  of black voters, who overwhelmingly support the president.
In contests  like those, it might well prove to be in the interest of a Democratic  candidate to, as one consultant put it, sit down in front of a camera  and tape an advertisement in which the candidate denounces the president's  behavior but solemnly pledges to vote against impeachment.
Strategists  in both parties believe that kind of approach could prove effective.
``This is an issue where there is a huge disconnect between the elites  and the public,'' said Fred Yang, a Democratic consultant with clients  in Wisconsin and the Carolinas.
That kind of Democratic strategy might  emerge in California, New York, Illinois, Wisconsin, Washington and  perhaps Arkansas.
By contrast, Democrats in South Carolina, Georgia  and Nevada would be less likely to oppose Clinton's impeachment.
On  the other side, Republican consultants are telling their candidates  to stress Clinton's misdeeds and stay away from talk of impeachment.
The last thing the party wants is to turn the Senate elections into  a referendum on whether Clinton should be forced from office.
``The  White House might think from the overall public numbers that maybe  they would like to make this a referendum election,'' said Ed Goeas,  a Republican pollster who is working in Senate races this year.
``Republicans  certainly aren't going to let that happen.''
D'Amato responded to  questions about Clinton with the language that Republican consultants  have been suggesting to their candidates.
``When and if that matter  comes to the Senate, I will decide on the facts that are presented  to me at that time,'' D'Amato said.
``It would be very premature for  me to suggest any course of action without it being referred.
Because,  indeed, we may be called upon to act as a jury of some kind.''
But  Schumer, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, which is conducting  the impeachment investigation, virtually embraced the issue.
In a  live telecast of the hearings, he said the president deserved a lesser  punishment, such as censure or reprimand.
And Schumer plans to campaign  in New York on Monday with Clinton at his side.
Schumer's media adviser,  Hank Morris, seemed to suggest last week that impeachment will grow  as an issue.
``Senator D'Amato claims he does not want to share his  opinion with the people of New York,'' Morris said.
``And if he doesn't  have an opinion, he's the only New Yorker who doesn't have an opinion.''
Asked if Schumer would raise the issue in a television commercial,  Morris responded: ``We don't talk about what we're going to do.
I  wouldn't rule it in and I wouldn't rule it out.''
White House officials and gay Democrats, concerned that the nation's  largest gay and lesbian political organization is about to endorse  Sen. Alfonse D'Amato for re-election, are intensely lobbying the group  to try to shift its support to the Democratic challenger, Rep. Charles  Schumer.
Publicly, officials in the organization, the Human Rights  Campaign, said they were still deliberating their position in the  closely watched race, considered among the tightest in the nation.
They said they would probably make an endorsement by Friday.
But privately,  organization officials and gay activists from both parties who have  been monitoring the debate say the group is most likely to endorse  D'Amato, a Republican seeking his fourth term.
They also raised the  possibility that the group would endorse both candidates, or remain  neutral.
If the group endorses D'Amato, said officials who spoke on  the condition of anonymity, the endorsement would be based on three  major factors: The group tends to favor incumbents, has been searching  for allies among the Senate Republican majority and considers D'Amato's  recent record on gay issues to be quite strong.
An endorsement by  the group, which is held in high regard by many gay and lesbian voters,  could prove important in swinging voters to D'Amato in a tight race.
It would also be a major symbolic victory for the senator, who has  sought to recast himself as a centrist in recent years and could use  the endorsement to build his standing among moderate swing voters.
A D'Amato endorsement would also weaken Schumer's efforts to portray  the incumbent as a right-wing extremist and would signify to many  voters a fraying of the traditional Democratic coalition that has  included black and gay voters, women and labor unions.
The intensity  of the debate surrounding the endorsement underscores the importance  of the New York Senate race to Democrats across the nation, who see  defeating D'Amato as one of their best opportunities to prevent the  enough to stop a  Democratic filibuster.
The Republicans currently hold a 55-to-45 majority.
``There is sentiment in the community that if the Republicans get  60 votes, that Trent Lott will basically be in charge politically  for the next two years,'' said David Mixner, a close friend of President  Clinton's who is gay.
He was referring to the Senate majority leader,  who has called homosexuality a sin and likened it to kleptomania.
Saturday, Schumer picked up his own endorsement from New York's largest  gay and lesbian political organization, the Empire State Pride Agenda.
Although the Human Rights Campaign is bipartisan, it has been very  close to the Clinton administration, has many Democrats on its board  and receives much of its money from Democratic contributors.
Largely  because of the group's strong Democratic ties, gay Democrats, New  York liberals and White House officials are infuriated that it is  even considering endorsing D'Amato, who also runs on the Right to  Life and Conservative Party lines and often receives high ratings  from the Christian Coalition, which typically opposes legislation  on civil rights for gay people.
Although the organization has been  thought to be inching toward a D'Amato endorsement for months, the  lobbying campaign for Schumer has picked up intensity in the last  two weeks, driven partly by a growing sense that the race is now closer  than ever.
Democrats and advocates in both parties who support rights  for gay people said that Vice President Al Gore, Hillary Rodham Clinton  and Secretary for Health and Human Services Donna Shalala have made  personal appeals to Human Rights Campaign officials urging them not  to endorse D'Amato.
White House officials said they did not know whether  the three had made such appeals, and Human Rights Campaign officials  declined to comment.
Schumer met privately with the group's top officials  last week to make one last pitch for the endorsement.
Clinton administration  officials have also been buttonholing the group's board members at  every opportunity, from cocktail parties to fund-raisers, raising  concerns about a D'Amato endorsement.
Some New York advocates of civil  rights for gay people have flooded the organization with phone calls,  e-mail messages and letters.
Democratic officials have been encouraging  the group's major donors to express their opposition to D'Amato.
People  involved in the lobbying efforts said that at best, they are hoping  the group will endorse both candidates, or make no endorsement at  all.
``Chuck Schumer has been a strong supporter of issues that are  important to gay communities,'' said a senior White House official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
``The last thing that they  should want to do is hurt the candidacy of someone who has been so  supportive of their agenda.''
The Human Rights Campaign is considered  the most influential gay and lesbian organization in Washington, with  a national membership of 250,000 and an annual budget of more than  $13 million.
The group was created in the early 1980s in large part  to counter the rise of the Christian right and Ronald Reagan.
Paradoxically,  D'Amato was first elected in the Reagan landslide of 1980 and remained  a strong supporter of President Reagan.
For D'Amato, who has aggressively  courted gay voters, the endorsement would represent a crowning achievement  in his efforts to reposition himself as a moderate.
Since 1993, the  senator has backed the right of gay citizens to serve in the military,  sponsored legislation to prevent job discrimination against gay workers  and opposed his own leadership's attempts to block the nominations  of two openly gay men to positions in the Clinton administration.
To gay supporters of D'Amato, an endorsement by the Human Rights Campaign  would signify the political maturation of the gay electorate and help  the organization insulate itself from accusations that it is too close  to the Democratic Party.
Those who support a D'Amato endorsement,  including top officials within the Human Rights Campaign, contend  that in the current political climate, where Congress is almost certain  to remain under Republican control after November, gay people must  build alliances with moderate Republicans.
Human Rights Campaign officials  also say their standing policy is to support friendly incumbents,  even when their challengers have better voting records on gay issues.
That is the case in New York, where Schumer's rating by the Human  Rights Campaign has been consistently better than D'Amato's.
Both  men, however, have angered advocates of rights for gay people by voting  for legislation that allows states to not recognize gay marriages.
In a precedent widely cited by D'Amato supporters, the organization  endorsed Sen. John F. Kerry, a Democrat, over the Republican challenger,  William Weld, in the 1996 Massachusetts Senate race, even though Weld's  record on gay rights was considered stronger.
The move angered gay  Republicans, who now contend that snubbing D'Amato would prove that  the group is biased toward Democrats.
But there is clearly a large  number of Human Rights Campaign contributors and board members who  strongly feel that endorsing D'Amato will permanently damage the group,  particularly among women.
They fear that abortion rights supporters  will quit the group in droves because D'Amato has never wavered in  his opposition to abortion during 18 years in Congress.
Many New York  gay activists would also be deeply upset if the group endorses D'Amato,  whom they blame for installing the state Senate majority leader, Joseph  Bruno, whom they consider to be strongly anti-gay.
Matt Foreman, executive  director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, cited D'Amato's role as  ``the architect'' of the state Republican Party as a major reason  the group endorsed Schumer.
``While he has criticized fellow Republicans  in Washington for their intolerance, here at home, his own party's  blatant discrimination is still the order of the day,'' Foreman said.
For that reason, some White House officials say they think a Human  Rights Campaign endorsement of D'Amato will be almost meaningless  among gay voters.
They contend that it might even hurt the senator  among his conservative base.
``I don't think anybody will vote for  Al D'Amato because of an HRC endorsement,'' said a White House aide  who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
``But I think some people  in the Right to Life Party and some upstate people are going to say,  `Who is this guy and why should we vote for him?'''
White House officials and gay Democrats, concerned that the nation's  largest gay and lesbian political organization is about to endorse  Sen. Alfonse D'Amato for re-election, are intensely lobbying the group  to try to shift its support to the Democratic challenger, Rep. Charles  Schumer.
Publicly, officials in the organization, the Human Rights  Campaign, said they were still deliberating their position in the  closely watched race, considered among the tightest in the nation.
They said they would probably make an endorsement by Friday.
But privately,  organization officials and gay activists from both parties who have  been monitoring the debate say the group is most likely to endorse  D'Amato, a Republican seeking his fourth term.
They also raised the  possibility that the group would endorse both candidates, or remain  neutral.
If the group endorses D'Amato, said officials who spoke on  the condition of anonymity, the endorsement would be based on three  major factors: The group tends to favor incumbents, has been searching  for allies among the Senate Republican majority and considers D'Amato's  recent record on gay issues to be quite strong.
An endorsement by  the group, which is held in high regard by many gay and lesbian voters,  could prove important in swinging voters to D'Amato in a tight race.
It would also be a major symbolic victory for the senator, who has  sought to recast himself as a centrist in recent years and could use  the endorsement to build his standing among moderate swing voters.
A D'Amato endorsement would also weaken Schumer's efforts to portray  the incumbent as a right-wing extremist and would signify to many  voters a fraying of the traditional Democratic coalition that has  included black and gay voters, women and labor unions.
The intensity  of the debate surrounding the endorsement underscores the importance  of the New York Senate race to Democrats across the nation, who see  defeating D'Amato as one of their best opportunities to prevent the  enough to stop a  Democratic filibuster.
The Republicans currently hold a 55-to-45 majority.
``There is sentiment in the community that if the Republicans get  60 votes, that Trent Lott will basically be in charge politically  for the next two years,'' said David Mixner, a close friend of President  Clinton's who is gay.
He was referring to the Senate majority leader,  who has called homosexuality a sin and likened it to kleptomania.
Saturday, Schumer picked up his own endorsement from New York's largest  gay and lesbian political organization, the Empire State Pride Agenda.
Although the Human Rights Campaign is bipartisan, it has been very  close to the Clinton administration, has many Democrats on its board  and receives much of its money from Democratic contributors.
Largely  because of the group's strong Democratic ties, gay Democrats, New  York liberals and White House officials are infuriated that it is  even considering endorsing D'Amato, who also runs on the Right to  Life and Conservative Party lines and often receives high ratings  from the Christian Coalition, which typically opposes legislation  on civil rights for gay people.
Although the organization has been  thought to be inching toward a D'Amato endorsement for months, the  lobbying campaign for Schumer has picked up intensity in the last  two weeks, driven partly by a growing sense that the race is now closer  than ever.
Democrats and advocates in both parties who support rights  for gay people said that Vice President Al Gore, Hillary Rodham Clinton  and Secretary for Health and Human Services Donna Shalala have made  personal appeals to Human Rights Campaign officials urging them not  to endorse D'Amato.
White House officials said they did not know whether  the three had made such appeals, and Human Rights Campaign officials  declined to comment.
Schumer met privately with the group's top officials  last week to make one last pitch for the endorsement.
Clinton administration  officials have also been buttonholing the group's board members at  every opportunity, from cocktail parties to fund-raisers, raising  concerns about a D'Amato endorsement.
Some New York advocates of civil  rights for gay people have flooded the organization with phone calls,  e-mail messages and letters.
Democratic officials have been encouraging  the group's major donors to express their opposition to D'Amato.
People  involved in the lobbying efforts said that at best, they are hoping  the group will endorse both candidates, or make no endorsement at  all.
``Chuck Schumer has been a strong supporter of issues that are  important to gay communities,'' said a senior White House official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
``The last thing that they  should want to do is hurt the candidacy of someone who has been so  supportive of their agenda.''
The Human Rights Campaign is considered  the most influential gay and lesbian organization in Washington, with  a national membership of 250,000 and an annual budget of more than  $13 million.
The group was created in the early 1980s in large part  to counter the rise of the Christian right and Ronald Reagan.
Paradoxically,  D'Amato was first elected in the Reagan landslide of 1980 and remained  a strong supporter of President Reagan.
For D'Amato, who has aggressively  courted gay voters, the endorsement would represent a crowning achievement  in his efforts to reposition himself as a moderate.
Since 1993, the  senator has backed the right of gay citizens to serve in the military,  sponsored legislation to prevent job discrimination against gay workers  and opposed his own leadership's attempts to block the nominations  of two openly gay men to positions in the Clinton administration.
To gay supporters of D'Amato, an endorsement by the Human Rights Campaign  would signify the political maturation of the gay electorate and help  the organization insulate itself from accusations that it is too close  to the Democratic Party.
Those who support a D'Amato endorsement,  including top officials within the Human Rights Campaign, contend  that in the current political climate, where Congress is almost certain  to remain under Republican control after November, gay people must  build alliances with moderate Republicans.
Human Rights Campaign officials  also say their standing policy is to support friendly incumbents,  even when their challengers have better voting records on gay issues.
That is the case in New York, where Schumer's rating by the Human  Rights Campaign has been consistently better than D'Amato's.
Both  men, however, have angered advocates of rights for gay people by voting  for legislation that allows states to not recognize gay marriages.
In a precedent widely cited by D'Amato supporters, the organization  endorsed Sen. John F. Kerry, a Democrat, over the Republican challenger,  William Weld, in the 1996 Massachusetts Senate race, even though Weld's  record on gay rights was considered stronger.
The move angered gay  Republicans, who now contend that snubbing D'Amato would prove that  the group is biased toward Democrats.
But there is clearly a large  number of Human Rights Campaign contributors and board members who  strongly feel that endorsing D'Amato will permanently damage the group,  particularly among women.
They fear that abortion rights supporters  will quit the group in droves because D'Amato has never wavered in  his opposition to abortion during 18 years in Congress.
Many New York  gay activists would also be deeply upset if the group endorses D'Amato,  whom they blame for installing the state Senate majority leader, Joseph  Bruno, whom they consider to be strongly anti-gay.
Matt Foreman, executive  director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, cited D'Amato's role as  ``the architect'' of the state Republican Party as a major reason  the group endorsed Schumer.
``While he has criticized fellow Republicans  in Washington for their intolerance, here at home, his own party's  blatant discrimination is still the order of the day,'' Foreman said.
For that reason, some White House officials say they think a Human  Rights Campaign endorsement of D'Amato will be almost meaningless  among gay voters.
They contend that it might even hurt the senator  among his conservative base.
``I don't think anybody will vote for  Al D'Amato because of an HRC endorsement,'' said a White House aide  who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
``But I think some people  in the Right to Life Party and some upstate people are going to say,  `Who is this guy and why should we vote for him?'''
The UN war crimes tribunal demands Yugoslavia's full cooperation in its investigations.
It blasted Belgrade for refusing to let investigators probe alleged atrocities in Kosovo.
The tribunal acquitted a Muslim commander, but convicted 3 underlings.
The commander was greeted by hundreds at Sarajevo a irport on his return.
Survivors say Serb forces in Kosovo took revenge against civilians for their battle losses.
Trial begins for Bosnian Serb Jelisic, nicknamed "Serb Adolf," who boasted of many killings.
He is accused of genocide, although he confessed to 12 killings.
U.S. forces in Bosnia arrested a Serb general accused of genocide at Srebrenica.
Yugoslavia has cooperated with the UN War crimes tribunal in cases where Serbs were victims in Bosnia and Croatia, but has been slow to allow investigation of alleged atrocities in Kosovo.
Serbs fighting there suffered losses to the guerillas and took revenge on civilians including women and children.
The war crimes tribunal acquitted a Muslim military commander of war crimes against Bosnian Serb prisoners but convicted three underlings.
A Bosnian Serb, known as "Serb Adolf", accused of genocide, admitted killing Muslims and Croats.
Allied forces arrested a Bosnian Serb general charged with genocide and who could implicate Slobodan Milosevic.
Yugoslavia was told to cooperate with the UN War Crimes Tribunal whether Serbs were victims or accused.
Belgrade refused visas to Kosovo atrocity investigators.
Serbians took revenge on Kosovo civilians for heavy losses.
Muslim commander Delalic was acquitted of anti-Bosnian Serb atrocities after 3 years and welcomed home.
3 of his underlings were convicted.
Croat commander Mucic was convicted for permitting atrocities.
"Serb Adolf" Goran Jelisic was freed from jail by Bosnian Serbs and told to go kill Muslims.
He confessed to murdering 12.
Maj. Gen. Krstic, a Bosnian Serb, is the first serving officer to be arrested.
He directed the attack on Srebrenica.
Milosevic cooperates with the U.N. war crimes tribunal when Serbs are victims, but is an obstructionist when they are the accused.
Officials, for example, limited U.N. investigators' access to Kosovo, where Serbs massacred 21 ethnic Albanian civilians of the Delijaj clan.
Further, while U.S. and allied forces arrested Bosnian Serb General Krstic on genocide charges, other indicted, high-ranking Serb leaders are protected in Serbia.
Meanwhile, in the first trial involving anti-Serb acts, a Muslim military commander was freed, but three prison camp officials were convicted.
Also, in The Hague, the genocide trial of Goran Jelisic, the "Serb Adolf," has begun.
Yugoslavia must cooperate with the U.N. war crimes tribunal investigating  alleged atrocities during the wars in Croatia and Bosnia, international  legal experts meeting in Belgrade said Sunday.
The meeting was the  first international debate in Yugoslavia over the U.N. tribunal's  work and the government's cooperation with it.
The tribunal, established  by the U.N. Security Council in 1993, sits in The Hague, Netherlands.
Despite objections to the tribunal, Yugoslav authorities allowed the  organized by the Belgrade-based, non-governmental  Humanitarian Law Center _ to take place without any problems.
State-run  media largely ignored the event.
Though there were some disagreements,  participants in the discussions generally agreed that crimes against  humanity cannot go unpunished.
``The indicted who are not in The Hague  are at-large because of the refusal by Croatian and Yugoslav authorities  to arrest and extradite them,'' said Mark Ellis, a lawyer and representative  of the American Bar Association.
Present-day Yugoslavia, consisting  of Serbia and Montenegro, cooperates with the tribunal in cases where  Serbs were the victims in Bosnia and Croatia, the two former republics  that fought wars for their secession.
But Yugoslavia has questioned  the tribunal's jurisdiction and refuses to indict three army officers  wanted for alleged war crimes in Croatia.
Last week, it also refused  to allow U.N. investigators to probe alleged atrocities in Serbia's  southern Kosovo province where ethnic Albanian separatists are fighting  government forces.
``The tribunal was founded to satanize Serbs,''  said Miodrag Mitic, a former legal adviser in Yugoslavia's foreign  ministry.
He said the U.N. court was influenced by powerful countries  that dominate the international body.
On Saturday, David Scheffer,  the U.S. State Department's ambassador at-large for war crimes, demanded  Yugoslavia's full cooperation.
The president of the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal harshly criticized  Belgrade authorities anew for refusing to let U.N. investigators probe  alleged atrocities in Kosovo.
In a letter to the United Nations Security  Council released Wednesday by the tribunal, presiding judge Gabrielle  Kirk McDonald of the United States said the failure of Yugoslav officials  to grant visas to investigators is ``an affront.''
``The intentional  and continuous refusal by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to comply  with its clear and incontrovertible legal obligations to the tribunal  is an affront to the Security Council and all law-abiding nations,''  she said.
The Texas judge fired off the letter last Friday following  the refusal of Belgrade authorities to allow tribunal Chief Prosecutor  Louise Arbour of Canada and a team of investigators to visit Kosovo.
McDonald asked the Security Council to impose ``measures which are  sufficiently compelling to bring the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia  into the fold of law-abiding nations.''
Hundreds of people, mostly  ethnic Albanians, have been killed, and as many as 300,000 driven  from their homes since February, when Serb forces began a crackdown  on ethnic Albanian separatists in Kosovo.
The tribunal wants to look  into allegations of war crimes on both sides of the conflict.
The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal Monday acquitted a Muslim military  commander of war crimes against Bosnian Serb prisoners in 1992, but  convicted three underlings in the first U.N. case dealing with anti-Serb  atrocities.
The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal cleared Zejnil Delalic,  a Muslim, of responsibility for war crimes committed against Serb  captives at a Bosnian government-run prison camp under his command.
Prosecutor Grant Niemann said he would appeal Delalic's acquittal,  and asked judges to keep him in custody pending the outcome of the  appeal.
The U.N. court convicted camp commander Zdravko Mucic, a Croat,  of 11 war crimes and grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions because  he oversaw guards who murdered nine Serbs and tortured six.
Mucic  smiled as he heard his sentence of seven years in prison read out.
His conviction was the first by an international court on the basis  of so-called ``command responsibility'' since post-World War II tribunals  convicted Nazi and Japanese superiors for the crimes of their subordinates.
``Mr. Mucic was clearly derelict in his duty and allowed those under  his authority to commit the most heinous of offenses, without taking  any disciplinary action,'' said presiding Judge Adolphus Karibi-Whyte.
Hazim Delic, a Muslim who served as Mucic's deputy, was found guilty  of two murders and of raping two women as well as torturing other  inmates.
He was sentenced to 20 years.
Esad Landzo, a Muslim guard,  was convicted of three murders and the torture of at least three other  inmates.
He was jailed for 15 years.
All four defendants had faced  up to life imprisonment, the maximum punishment at the tribunal, which  has no death penalty.
Monday's verdicts ended a marathon 20-month  trial that focused on the brutal mistreatment of the Bosnian Serbs,  themselves blamed for the vast majority of the conflict's war crimes.
the tribunal's longest to date involving 122 witnesses  _ survivors described the campaign of terror unleashed against Serbs  in the area.
Inmates at the Celebici prison camp were beaten to death  by guards wielding baseball bats, wooden planks and rifle butts, according  to testimony.
Others were set on fire, raped and forced to commit  sexual acts with members of their own family.
The 49-page indictment  detailing atrocities at Celebici asserts that at least 14 prisoners  were killed in 1992.
One prisoner was beaten to death and had a Muslim  party badge nailed to his head, a witness claimed.
Yet a few witnesses  also praised Delalic and Mucic for humanitarian gestures, such as  getting food and clothing to some prisoners and releasing others.
The tribunal, set up by the Security Council in 1993, has convicted  only one other person following a trial _ Bosnian Serb Dusan Tadic,  who was sentenced in May 1997 to 20 years for killing and torturing  Muslims in 1992.
Two other men have confessed to killing Muslims,  handing the tribunal two more convictions while sparing it the need  for trials.
The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal Monday acquitted a Muslim commander  of war crimes against Bosnian Serb prisoners in 1992, but convicted  three underlings in the first U.N. case dealing with anti-Serb atrocities.
The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal cleared Zejnil Delalic, a Muslim,  of responsibility for war crimes committed against Serb captives at  a Bosnian government-run prison camp under his command.
Prosecutor  Grant Niemann said he would appeal Delalic's acquittal, and asked  judges to keep him in custody pending the outcome of the appeal.
The  U.N. court convicted camp commander Zdravko Mucic, a Croat, of 11  war crimes and grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions because he  oversaw guards who murdered nine Serbs and tortured six.
Mucic smiled  as he heard his sentence of seven years in prison read out.
His conviction  was the first by an international court on the basis of so-called  ``command responsibility'' since post-World War II tribunals convicted  Nazi and Japanese superiors for the crimes of their subordinates.
``Mr. Mucic was clearly derelict in his duty and allowed those under  his authority to commit the most heinous of offenses, without taking  any disciplinary action,'' said presiding Judge Adolphus Karibi-Whyte.
Hazim Delic, a Muslim who served as Mucic's deputy, was found guilty  of two murders and of raping two women as well as torturing other  inmates.
He was sentenced to 20 years.
Esad Landzo, a Muslim guard,  was convicted of three murders and the torture of at least three other  inmates.
He was jailed for 15 years.
All four defendants had faced  up to life imprisonment, the maximum punishment at the tribunal, which  has no death penalty.
Monday's verdicts ended a marathon 20-month  trial that focused on the brutal mistreatment of the Bosnian Serbs,  themselves blamed for the vast majority of the conflict's war crimes.
the tribunal's longest to date involving 122 witnesses  _ survivors described the campaign of terror unleashed against Serbs  in the area.
Inmates at the Celebici prison camp were beaten to death  by guards wielding baseball bats, wooden planks and rifle butts, according  to testimony.
Others were set on fire, raped and forced to commit  sexual acts with members of their own family.
The 49-page indictment  detailing atrocities at Celebici asserts that at least 14 prisoners  were killed in 1992.
One prisoner was beaten to death and had a Muslim  party badge nailed to his head, a witness claimed.
Yet a few witnesses  also praised Delalic and Mucic for humanitarian gestures, such as  getting food and clothing to some prisoners and releasing others.
The tribunal, set up by the Security Council in 1993, has convicted  only one other person following a trial _ Bosnian Serb Dusan Tadic,  who was sentenced in May 1997 to 20 years for killing and torturing  Muslims in 1992.
Two other men have confessed to killing Muslims,  handing the tribunal two more convictions while sparing it the need  for trials.
In its first case to deal with atrocities against Serbs during Bosnia's  civil war, a U.N. war crimes tribunal on Monday convicted three prison  officials and guards, but acquitted a top military commander who oversaw  the facility.
The Yugoslav war crimes tribunal cleared Cmndr.
Zejnil  Delalic, of the Bosnian Muslim Army, of responsibility for war crimes  committed at a government-run prison camp under his overall command.
Prosecutor Grant Niemann of Australia said he would appeal Delalic's  acquittal.
Judges freed Delalic pending the outcome of the appeal.
``Let me thank you for a just and fair judgment,'' Delalic told the  court.
``The judgment has even increased my trust in this institution.''
The tribunal convicted camp warden Zdravko Mucic, a Croat, of 11 war  crimes and grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions because he oversaw  guards who murdered nine Serbs and tortured six.
Mucic, wearing dark  sunglasses and a cross, smiled as he heard his sentence of seven years  in prison.
Tribunal Deputy Prosecutor Graham Blewitt of Australia  said he was considering appealing Mucic's ``inadequate'' sentence.
Mucic's conviction was the first by an international court on the  basis of ``command responsibility'' since post-World War II tribunals  convicted Nazi and Japanese superiors for the crimes of their subordinates.
``Mr. Mucic was clearly derelict in his duty and allowed those under  his authority to commit the most heinous of offenses, without taking  any disciplinary action,'' said presiding Judge Adolphus Karibi-Whyte  of Nigeria.
Monday's verdicts ended a marathon 20-month trial that  focused on the brutal mistreatment of the Bosnian Serbs, themselves  blamed for the vast majority of war crimes committed during the 3  the tribunal's longest  to date involving 122 witnesses _ survivors described the campaign  of terror unleashed against Serbs in the area.
Inmates at the Celebici  prison camp were beaten to death by guards wielding baseball bats,  wooden planks and rifle butts, according to testimony.
Others were  set on fire, raped and forced to commit sexual acts with members of  their own family.
The 49-page indictment detailing atrocities at Celebici  asserts that at least 14 prisoners were killed in 1992.
One prisoner  was beaten to death and had a Muslim party badge nailed to his head,  a witness claimed.
Yet a few witnesses also praised Delalic and Mucic,  for humanitarian gestures, such as getting food and clothing to some  prisoners and releasing others.
Hazim Delic, a Muslim who served as  deputy warden of the camp, was found guilty of two murders and of  raping two women as well as torturing other inmates.
He was sentenced  to 20 years by Karibi-Whyte, who denounced rape as ``a despicable  act which strikes at the very core of human dignity and physical integrity.''
Delic's defense attorney said he would likely appeal.
Esad Landzo,  a Muslim guard, was convicted of killing three prisoners and torturing  at least three others and was sentenced to 15 years.
His attorneys  also are likely to appeal the conviction.
All four defendants had  faced up to life imprisonment, the maximum punishment at the tribunal,  which has no death penalty.
A charge against Delic and Mucic of plundering  property was dismissed by the three-judge panel.
Mucic also was cleared  of responsibility for four murders and three cases of mistreatment  or torture of prisoners.
Delic was cleared of two murders, and of  command responsibility for other killings at Celebici.
He was also  acquitted of three cases of torture.
Landzo was cleared of one murder  charge and one torture count.
The tribunal, set up by the Security  Council in 1993, has convicted only one other person following a trial  _ Bosnian Serb Dusan Tadic, who was sentenced in May 1997 to 20 years  for killing and torturing Muslims in 1992.
Two other men have confessed  to killing Muslims, handing the tribunal two more convictions without  conduction trials.
Hundreds of people gathered at Sarajevo airport on Saturday to welcome  Zejnil Delalic, who was cleared of war crimes charges earlier this  week after spending 980 days in jail of the international war crimes  tribunal in The Hague.
Delalic, a Muslim, was cleared of charges of  war crimes committed in 1992 against Serb prisoners in the Muslim-led  Bosnian Army prison camp Celebici near his hometown of Konjic.
Three  others involved in the same case were convicted and will serve prison  terms at The Hague for crimes committed as camp guards.
Delalic held  up his verdict as he arrived and was first greeted by his family and  then by many friends from Konjic, 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of  Sarajevo, where a huge welcome party for him was planned.
``This is  the book of 500 pages in which it says 12 times Delalic is not guilty,''  he told reporters.
``More important is that acts commited by some  weren't ordered by officers of our Bosnian Army.
These acts were qualified  as acts of individuals that happened on a daily basis,'' he said.
Edina Residovic, Delalic's lawyer, said she will seek compensation  for wrongful imprisonment on behalf of Delalic, who spent almost three  years in confinement.
He called himself the ``Serb Adolf,'' and his crimes were as chilling  as his nickname.
In a trial opening Monday at the Yugoslav war crimes  tribunal, U.N. prosecutors were seeking to convince a three-judge  panel that Goran Jelisic is guilty of genocide, the court's most serious  offense.
The 30-year-old former Bosnian Serb mechanic confessed in  October to murdering 12 Muslims and Croats in 1992, astonishing many  observers by reversing his earlier declarations of innocence.
Although  his guilty pleas mean an automatic conviction for war crimes and crimes   Jelisic has denied that the killing spree constituted genocide.
By  pressing on with a genocide trial, prosecutors will be able to call  evidence about the background of Jelisic's murders, including the  involvement of more senior Serbs.
The trial also will give survivors  of his ruthless campaign a chance to tell their story in court.
To  convict Jelisic of genocide, prosecutors must prove that the murders  _ most of them carried out with close-range shots from an automatic  pistol _ were part of a campaign intended to wipe out an entire ethnic  group in the northern Bosnian town of Brcko.
Jelisic, who was arrested  in January by U.S. troops serving in the NATO force in Bosnia, has  pleaded guilty to a total of 31 counts of war crimes and crimes against  humanity.
The charges cover the murders as well as three beatings  and the plundering of property.
In entering those guilty pleas, Jelisic  told the tribunal he wanted to ``cleanse my soul.''
He will officially  be convicted of those charges during the genocide trial.
Jelisic's  victims were killed in or near the Serb-run Luka prison camp, a former  port complex on the banks of the Sava River.
Although most victims  were men, Jelisic also clubbed one female inmate with a police baton  and then fatally shot her.
U.N. prosecutors say Jelisic identified  himself to prisoners as the ``Serb Adolf,'' a reference to Hitler,  and bragged about the number of Muslims he had killed.
Set up in 1993,  the U.N. court has convicted three Muslims, two Bosnian Croats and  a Bosnian Serb of war crimes including murder, rape and torture, but  it has yet to register a genocide conviction.
An earlier genocide  trial was halted when the defendant, Bosnian Serb Milan Kovacevic,  died of a ruptured artery in his tribunal cell.
To his Muslim targets, Bosnian Serb Goran Jelisic was ``the face of  genocide'' who once bragged that ``he had to kill 20 or 30 Muslims  before his morning coffee.''
Opening a genocide trial Monday at the  Yugoslav war crimes tribunal, U.N. prosecutor Terree Bowers said the  30-year-old mechanic used the nickname Adolf ``with a perverse pride  in the genocidal symbolism it represented.''
Jelisic pleaded guilty  in October to murdering 12 Muslims and Croats in and around the Serb-run  Luka camp set up in Brcko, northern Bosnia, in May 1992.
By trying  him for genocide, prosecutors will be able to call evidence about  the background of Jelisic's murders, including the involvement of  more senior Serbs.
The trial also will give survivors of his killing  spree chance to tell their story in court.
Bowers told a three-judge  tribunal panel that Jelisic admitted in interviews with investigators  to far more killings than the dozen to which he has pleaded guilty.
Jelisic will be convicted of those murders and sentenced at the end  of his trial, which is expected to last well into 1999.
He faces a  maximum sentence of life imprisonment.
``We will never be able to  fix the exact number'' of victims, Bowers said.
``But if we are to  believe even a small percentage of the totals which Goran Jelisic  claimed, then his victims certainly number well over 100.''
As the  trial began, judges were read excerpts of a psychological report which  stated that Jelisic was mentally fit to stand trial but suffered a  ``borderline personality disorder.''
Wearing a striped sweater and  black jeans, Jelisic brought a laptop computer into court and took  notes.
When he wasn't writing, Jelisic sat slightly slumped in his  chair, his head still, looking impassively around the courtroom.
Jelisic's  even at a tribunal set up to deal  exclusively with atrocities _ for its cold-bloodedness.
``Once Goran  Jelisic even declined assistance from a guard, noting that he was  still in `good form' even though he had killed over 60 people,'' Bowers  told judges, citing statements made by witnesses due to testify later  in the trial.
``To victims in Brcko, the face of genocide was the  face of Goran Jelisic,'' he said.
Bowers told the judges that Jelisic,  who held no official rank, was released by Bosnian Serb authorities  from jail, where he was serving three years for fraud, and sent to  Brcko to murder Muslims.
He told investigators that on his arrival  in the town, which was of strategic importance to Bosnian Serbs, he  was given a list of Muslim targets and ordered to kill as many as  possible.
Jelisic, Bowers said, seemed to relish the task.
``Witness  testimony will also establish that Goran Jelisic was not a reluctant  tool of the genocide who was being compelled by Serb authorities to  act against his will,'' the U.S. prosecutor said.
``Quite to the contrary,  the testimony will firmly establish that Goran Jelisic was an efficient  and enthusiastic participant in the genocide.''
Set up in 1993, the  U.N. court has convicted two Muslims, two Bosnian Croats and a Bosnian  Serb of war crimes including murder, rape and torture, but it has  yet to register a genocide conviction.
An earlier genocide trial was  halted when the defendant, Bosnian Serb Milan Kovacevic, died of a  ruptured artery in his tribunal cell.
Some of the closest combat in the half year of the Kosovo conflict,  to the point of fighting room to room and floor to floor, occurred  near this village six weeks ago, in the days before 21 women, children  and elderly members of the Delijaj clan were massacred by Serbian  forces, their mutilated bodies left strewn on the forest floor.
Piecing  together what happened, from surviving family members, ethnic Albanian  separatist forces and official Serbian information, a story emerges  of fierce guerrilla resistance to an onslaught by Serbian tanks, artillery  and infantry.
The Serbian forces fighting here appear to have suffered  unusually heavy losses and, after the guerrillas finally fled, took  revenge against the civilians, shooting women and children at close  range as they tried to run away from their pursuers.
According to  relatives who found the bodies, Pajazit Delijaj, 65, was decapitated,  his brain left on display on the ground.
Hava Delijaj, 65, was shot  and one of her feet cut with a knife so that it hung by a thread of  skin.
Young women and children who had run a few hundred yards up  a rocky path were mowed down.
Miraculously, a 6-week-old baby, Diturie,  was found by her father alive in the clasp of her dead mother, Lumnije,  30, more than 24 hours after the killings.
``Blood was in her mouth  and her mother's hand on the baby,'' said Imer Delijaj, the father,  an avowed member of the Kosovo Liberation Army, the ethnic Albanian  guerrilla force, who returned in uniform to discover the bodies.
``I  moved her hand and at that moment she opened her eyes.
I realized  she was alive.
I tried to clean the blood from her mouth and she put  her tongue out.''
Several members of the Delijaj clan survived.
Zejnije  Delijaj, 39, who had cooked for the guerrillas at the family compound  when they returned from fighting in the days before the massacre,  recalled how she fled, crawling, falling, running and hiding in the  woods as the Serbs shot at her.
``I could feel the dirt hitting me  from the impact of the bullets,'' she said in an interview, her nose  still bloodied from what she said was a heavy fall during her flight.
``First it was machine guns, then grenades, then cannon,'' she said.
``Every time I moved and they heard leaves rustling, they shot.''
The massacre of the Delijajs, whose forebears settled in the Drenica  Valley about 150 years ago, was not the first in the conflict that  ravaged the Serbian province between March and October and has now  lulled into an uneasy truce.
Indeed, the conflict between Serbian  forces bent on keeping Kosovo in Serbia and guerrillas fighting for  the independence of its heavily ethnic Albanian population first drew  international attention with the massacre of the Jasari clan in early  March by Serbian units at Prekaz, in central Kosovo.
But the killing  of the Delijajs, ranging from the paralyzed patriarch, Fazli, 94,  who was burned in his bed, to the slaughter of Valmir, 18 months,  who was found shot, is the most thoroughly documented so far.
Human  Rights Watch, a New York-based group, believes the knowledge gathered  so far increases the possibility of prosecutions by the U.N. war crimes  tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands.
The Hague's prosecutors could  also draw on the observations of diplomats, human rights monitors  and reporters who saw the bodies scattered in the ravine where the  victims were killed before they were buried in shallow graves in the  clan's nearby compound.
In other Kosovo massacres, bodies had been  moved from the sites before they were seen by independent observers.
Further, family members who survived the assault have described what  they saw and the circumstances in the hills and valleys around Obrinje  as the Serbs pushed forward early Saturday morning, Sept. 26, from  their headquarters at Likovac, north of here.
By then, the Albanian  guerrillas had fled the area around the Delijaj compound, dispersing  after what a senior commander of the Kosovo Liberation Army, Naim  Maloku, termed particularly fierce combat with the Serbs.
In the days  caught in a Serbian pincer  movement _ had decided to fight rather than surrender.
The fighting  _ sometimes house to house, even room to room _ took an unusually  heavy toll among the Serbs, said Maloku, a former officer in the Yugoslav  army.
He said he believed that it was those deaths the Serbs avenged  with the massacre of the Delijajs.
In other major attacks during the  conflict, the guerrillas generally found an escape hatch.
In Obrinje,  led by another former officer of the Yugoslav army whom Maloku declined  to name, the guerrillas fought, using land mines and rocket-propelled  grenades.
Maloku said he knew from a report made by rebel headquarters  that at least 47 Serbian soldiers and police officers were killed  in the fighting between here and Bajince, three miles east.
``We took  weapons from 47 Serbs,'' he said.
The state-controlled Serbian media  center in Kosovo's capital, Pristina, said 10 Serbian police officers  were killed in the fighting, including five reservists who died when  their vehicle hit an antitank mine on Sept. 25.
The announcement of  10 Serbs killed in one action is unusually high.
The practice of taking  violent revenge is a time-honored tradition in the Balkans.
From 1991  to 1995, in the wars in Croatia and Bosnia, Serbs, Croats and, to  a far lesser extent, the main victims, the Muslims, avenged World  War II massacres and new blood feuds, driven into killing by leaders  who exploited old conflicts to carve new fiefs for themselves as the  old, Communist Yugoslavia collapsed.
In this case, it appears, Serbian  vengeance was visited upon the Delijajs.
Survivors of the clan said  they had feared an assault on their collection of mud and brick homes  lining a rocky dirt track directly opposite the village of Likovac,  the Serbs' base just a mile away.
The Serbs had pushed the rebels  out of Likovac in August and the guerrillas had established new headquarters  around Bajince, six miles east of Obrinje.
As the Serbs swept down  from the nearby Cicavica Mountains, and up from the road that runs  from Pristina to Klina, it was clear that Obrinje would be a target.
Most women and children in the area had moved into Apple Valley, where  more than 10,000 refugees had gathered outdoors, seeking safety in  numbers.
But Imer Delijaj, 38, said he decided that the ravine below  his family compound would be a better hiding place.
He said he believed  the women, children and elderly would be spared if the Serbs found  them.
As the Serbs approached on foot the Saturday morning of the  massacre, the last person to flee the compound itself was Bashkim  Delijaj, 21, the youngest son of 94-year-old Fazli.
Bashkim Delijaj  said he had stayed behind to look after his bedridden father.
``The  shelling started again at 7 a.m. on Saturday and I saw a tank convoy  approaching, with infantry behind the tanks,'' Bashkim Delijaj recalled  in an interview.
``I was smoking a cigarette when a grenade fell on  the roof and from a hole in the gate I saw soldiers coming from about  30 meters away.
They were in brown army uniforms, had huge knives  or small axes.
Many had beards.''
Bashkim Delijaj said he was unable  to carry his father to safety, and did not have the courage to tell  him what was happening.
``I told him I was getting the animals out  of the barn,'' he said.
He said he ran, hid, ran some more, and eventually  received shelter from a farmer, all the time hearing shooting and  shelling.
When the firing had died down Monday morning, he returned  to the compound and ran into Imer, still wearing his guerrilla uniform.
They went to one of the houses and found Imer Delijaj's brother, Adem,  33, shot dead, his body sprawled on the ground in the rain, and the  burned torso of Fazli.
``I looked in the window of our house and saw  only the bones of my father, which looked like what we learned in  biology class,'' he said.
Together, the two men went to find out what  had happened in the ravine.
There they found the bodies.
First, Ali,  65, who, Imer Delijaj said, had been cut through the neck with his  own tobacco cutting knife.
Then Pajazit, who had been decapitated  in a makeshift tent, his brain placed between two foam mattresses.
Then Hava, 65, who was sprawled near the tent.
They moved on to find  Jeton, Imer's 10-year-old son, and Imer's mother, Hamide, 60, not  far away.
Imer's sister-in-law, Luljeta, who was seven months pregnant,  had been mutilated, he said.
A little further up the ravine, Imer  said he saw his wife, Lumnije, 30.
He opened his wife's coat and found  his 6-week-old baby girl, now 3 months old and recovering at a relative's  home in Likovac.
He said he tried to clean the baby and then put her  under his jacket and walked a few feet further to find the bodies  of his 4-year-old daughter, Menduhije, and two other young children,  Donieta, 5, and Gentiana, 7.
The corpses of other family members were  found in the woods and two older men, Habib, 51, and Hysen, 53, were  found the next morning, Imer said.
On Oct. 3, the bodies of two missing  teen-age girls, Mehane, 16, and Antigua, 13, were found in the bushes  at the side of a road near an abandoned Serbian police compound.
Later  in the month, the body of Hajriz was found pushed down a well, close  to the ravine.
One uncle, Sharif, who was in the ravine, is still  missing, presumed dead.
Human Rights Watch, which has been documenting  the Delijaj massacre, has described it as the most vicious of a pattern  of attacks on civilians by the Serbs in the Kosovo conflict.
(To a  lesser extent, Albanian guerrillas also attacked Serbian civilians,  forcing them from their homes, and allegedly carried out at least  two massacres.)
The evidence strongly indicates that the Gornje Obrinje  killings were followed by conscious mutilations carried out after  the victims were killed, a coming report by Human Rights Watch says.
Delijaj family members have told Human Rights Watch monitors and others  that they saw an ethnic Albanian police officer accompanying the Serbian  police officers during the fighting.
They believe that the police  officer, who is posted at the nearby Glogovac police station, was  used by the Serbian special police officers as a guide to the Obrinje  area.
This police officer, who is apparently one of a small group  of ethnic Albanians officers who have remained loyal to the Serbs,  could be an important witness for criminal investigators from the  war-crimes tribunal in The Hague, according to human rights experts.
``The ethnic Albanian policeman could be an important witness to identifying  the police and army units responsible for the atrocities,'' said Peter  Boueckhart, a researcher for Human Rights Watch.
``It is vital that  those who carried out these atrocities are prosecuted by the Hague  tribunal.''
At the burned Delijaj compound in the last week, Imer  Delijaj has been acting as the host of a wake which, following Albanian  tradition, will last several weeks and began after family members  returned from their hiding places in the woods.
Color photographs  of the youngest members of the family, and of Imer's mother and grandmother,  have been mounted behind glass on a table outside the gate.
A 30-year-old  faded black and white picture of Fazli in a double-breasted suit stands  apart, a sign of ultimate respect.
An outsized Albanian flag with  a black double-headed eagle on a red field is draped behind the table.
Imer Delijaj's face seemed tense and his words were spare as he described  his family's death.
He did not express direct remorse for allowing  his family to use a hiding place so close to the family compound,  which for all practical purposes was an informal base for fighters.
His lawyer, Bajram Krasniqi, who said he was eager to be helpful to  investigators of the Hague tribunal, said in Pristina that he believed  Imer Delijaj felt guilty for a faulty decision.
Whether the tribunal  will closely examine the case remains unclear.
Slobodan Milosevic,  the Yugoslav president, has issued only a handful of visas to investigators  from the tribunal.
Two investigators who were in Kosovo at the time  of the massacre left six days later without visiting the site or contacting  Krasniqi about the killings.
Would Imer Delijaj seek revenge?
As he  sat on the floor of his living room with a group of male visitors,  he replied: ``It's easy to answer.
If I can see eye to eye with men  I will fight them.
But only with men in uniform and in a fair fight.
If I see children with them, I will treat them like children all over  the world.
Children are children.''
American and allied forces in Bosnia on Wednesday arrested a Bosnian  Serb general who was charged with genocide by the international war  crimes tribunal in a recent secret indictment.
Maj. Gen. Radislav  Krstic, arrested without incident in the American sector in northeast  Bosnia, is the highest-ranking official to be seized so far, and the  first serving military officer.
He is accused of directing the attack  on Srebrenica in 1995, one of the most chilling and influential events  of the Bosnian war, when some 7,000 Bosnian Muslim men were marched  off, presumably to their deaths, as U.N. peacekeepers stood by.
The  indictment of Krstic accuses him of having committed genocide during  and after the fall of Srebrenica between July 11 and Nov. 1, 1995.
He is indicted both in connection with ``direct personal involvement  in the commission of these crimes'' as well as his command responsibility.
He is also accused of murder and other crimes against humanity.
Krstic  was a colonel in 1995, and the deputy commander of the Drina battalion,  but was promoted to general within days of the fall of Srebrenica.
He is considered a close associate of the Bosnian Serb commander,  Gen. Ratko Mladic, and the former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic,  both of whom are wanted by the tribunal.
And he is considered capable,  if he is willing to testify, of implicating Yugoslav President Slobodan  Milosevic, who has not been indicted.
Louise Arbour, chief prosecutor  of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia,  called Krstic ``a very significant military leader'' and said she  was delighted with the arrest.
The general was only indicted on Oct.
30, tribunal officials said, but the indictment was kept secret so  there would be a better chance of a successful arrest.
NATO Secretary-General  Javier Solana warned that other war crimes suspects still at large  ``should realize that they, too, will be brought to justice.''
James  Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said that the arrest ``serves  as a standing warning to those indicted for war crimes, who remain  at large, that they will be held individually accountable for their  actions.''
The Bosnian Serbs reacted angrily to the arrest, with the  hardline Bosnian Serb president, Nikola Poplasen, saying that his  government would now reduce contacts with NATO-led peacekeeping forces  ``to the necessary minimum.''
Poplasen, who defeated a more moderate  candidate backed by Washington in September elections, said the arrest  of Krstic had ``embittered and upset'' the Bosnian Serbs and would  harm the implementation of the Dayton agreement that ended the 1992-1995  Bosnian war.
He said he would protest the arrest, and his remarks  were later endorsed by parliament in a majority vote.
A senior official  of a NATO country called the arrest ``very good news'' and said it  was ``a warning to Milosevic himself'' and others who have not been  publicly indicted that ``the murders committed have not been forgotten.''
A Pentagon official said the arrest, the most important made in the  American sector, ``was a sign that this is a continuing process.''
NATO-led peacekeeping troops have now arrested nine people wanted  for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, four of whom were the subject  of sealed indictments.
There have been numerous calls for the arrest  of Mladic and Karadzic, the two most infamous men indicted, but they  normally are accompanied by armed guards.
NATO forces have never tried  to arrest them, apparently fearing casualties and an angry public  reaction from Bosnian Serbs.
Officials say that both Mladic and Karadzic  are believed to have left the Bosnian Serb Republic to live in Serbia,  which is part of Yugoslavia and controlled by Milosvevic.
Krstic,  who was transferred to The Hague for trial, is the 35th suspect who  has been taken there and the 26th person currently being held there.
He is the commander of the Bosnian Serb 5th Corps and was arrested  while traveling on the road to Bijelina.
At the outset of the war  in 1992, he was an officer of the Yugoslav Army, and like all senior  Bosnian Serb officers, was transferred to the new Bosnian Serb force.
In 1994, he lost a leg in a mine explosion.
One Bosnian Serb official  said in a telephone interview that, at the time, Krstic had responsibility  for ``anti-terrorist units'' who were given some of the most difficult  tasks.
``Srebrenica is a dark part of our history and people don't  talk about it,'' the official said.
``But everyone believes it was  the anti-terrorist units that were sent to do the killing.''
In Banja  Luka on Wednesday, some members of the Bosnian Serb parliament protested  the arrest, saying that Krstic was simply doing his job as a soldier.
Ivo Daalder, a former Bosnia expert on the National Security Council,  now with the Brookings Institution, said the arrest showed a new and  promising coordination between the Tribunal and NATO troops, given  the rapid arrest after the Oct. 30 indictment.
He also said that the  arrest of a serving officer for an important war crime would send  an important message.
Srebrenica was a key town in the Bosnian conflict.
It was where the United Nations first made a stand in March 1993,  when the commander of U.N. troops personally led a convoy of trucks  to the surrounded town and promised the Bosnian Muslims there that  Srebrenica would be a ``safe area'' and the United Nations would protect  them.
But in July 1995, the United Nations did not protect Srebrenica  with air strikes, and peacekeeping troops watched as the Serbs marched  in, separated Muslim men and women and marched the men off.
``Srebrenica  signaled the massive failure of the West,'' said Daalder.
``It galvanized  the United States and NATO to act.''
At a London conference later  in July, NATO agreed to defend Gorazde and remaining safe areas with  massive air strikes if necessary.
After a mortar attack on the Sarajevo  marketplace in late August, NATO air strikes began, signaling the  last chapter of the war and leading to the American-brokered Dayton  Accords.
In Sarajevo Wednesday, an aide to the Bosnian Muslim member  of the collective presidency, Alija Izetbegovic, praised the arrest.
``We welcome this action, hoping very soon that the time will come  for Karadzic and Mladic to be brought to justice,'' said the aide,  Mirza Jajric.
The arrest took place as foreign ministers of the member  countries of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe  met in Oslo, Norway, to discuss the international effort to keep the  peace in Kosovo, the southern Serbian province.
Under a deal pressed  on Milosevic in October, the organization will provide up to 2,000  civilians to monitor a cease-fire in Kosovo and to promote a political  settlement there to give Kosovo enhanced autonomy.
Macedonia's government  Wednesday formally approved the basing of 1,700 NATO troops near its  border with Kosovo.
Those troops will be prepared to rush to the aid  of the civilian monitors if necessary.
Clinton will visit Israel, Gaza and the West bank Dec. 12-15 as agreed in the Wye River accord.
The days preceding his trip are filled with violence, unrest and divisiveness.
Hamas denounces Clinton's trip, but makes no threats against him.
Netanyahu says Arafat is "making a farce" of the Wye accord.
The two sides disagree over its terms.
The Israelis and Palestinians are troubled by violence, fear and loss.
Clinton has impeachment troubles.
Extra security is in place wherever Clinton will go.
He hopes to salvage the Wye accord.
However, Netanyahu continues to withdraw troops from the West Bank as stipulated in the agreement.
Despite concerns it might cause more unrest, President Clinton met in Israel separately with Prime Minister Netanyahu and Yasser Arafat to negotiate Wye Accord agreement terms.
Israel is demanding revocation of anti-Israeli clauses in the 1964 Palestinian charter.
Palestine is demanding Israel's release of Palestinian prisoners.
Both sides are exchanging accusations over Israeli West Bank settlements and anti-Israeli violence.
Hamas denounced Clinton's visit but avoided threats.
US and Palestinian agents kept the Gaza area secure.
In the end, Netanyahu, facing political turmoil, told President Clinton he would not remove his troops from the West Bank.
Security high for Clinton's visit to Gaza, part of the Wye Accord, as Palestinian leaders revoke a 1964 Israeli destruction clause.
Israel claims Air Force One landing in Palestinian is sovereign recognition.
It won't withdraw West Bank troops unless Palestinians formally vote to revoke the clause and violence stops.
Palestine says Israel violated the Accord by improper prisoner releases, roadbuilding and settlement expansion.
It warns of violence and there have been stone-throwing protests.
Radical Islam group Hamas denounces the visit and the Accord.
Clinton has made ending the long feud a crusade.
Both Clinton and Netanyahu's leadership threatened.
Clinton traveled to the mid-East in December in an effort to energize the Wye agreement signed by Israel and Palestine.
Problems immediately faced this accord, intended to trade Israeli territory for security.
Questions remained on which prisoners should be released and what constituted a vote to revoke a 1964 call to destroy Israel.
Jewish settlers continued to take more lands.
Violence and demonstrations went on.
The Israeli far right was angry.
Clinton was facing impeachment hearings.
History and hatred were too strong for him to succeed.
Netanyahu finally refused to move the peace process forward, but probably still will be voted out of office.
Less than a week before U.S. President Bill Clinton is to arrive for  a visit meant to bolster a new Israeli-Palestinian peace accord, the  two sides exchanged angry accusations Sunday over Jewish settlements  and street clashes.
Ahmed Qureia, speaker of the Palestinian parliament,  warned of possible violence if Israel continues to expand settlements  in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where the Palestinians hope to establish  a state.
``If settlement activity continues, then all means of resistance  are open,'' Qureia, who is also known as Abu Ala, told reporters in  the West Bank town of Ramallah.
Since the signing of a land-for-security  accord, Jewish settlers have accelerated the establishment of makeshift  communities on West Bank hilltops, in an explicit bid to keep the  land from being turned over to the Palestinians.
Meanwhile, at a meeting  of the Israeli Cabinet, ministers expressed dismay over an outbreak  of street clashes between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli troops  in the West Bank.
``The Palestinians have been asked to immediately  stop the violence and incitement to violence,'' the Cabinet said in  a statement.
At least two Palestinians were injured Sunday in a confrontation  outside the Jewish settlement of Ariel in the northern West Bank.
Demonstrators threw stones at Israeli troops, who responded with rubber  bullets and tear gas.
A day earlier, 27 Palestinians and three Israeli  soldiers were injured in similar clashes throughout the West Bank.
And three days before that, Israelis were horrified by television  footage of an Israeli soldier being dragged from a car and beaten  with chunks of concrete by a Palestinian mob.
Israel says Yasser Arafat's  Palestinian Authority is orchestrating the street fighting.
The Palestinians  deny that.
The past week's protests grew out of an increasingly bitter  dispute over Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.
Israel last month  freed 250 of 750 prisoners it is to release under the Wye accords,  but most were criminals.
The Palestinians are demanding that so-called  be  released instead.
Also Sunday, another quarrel was brewing over the  scheduled meeting of the Palestinian National Council, the Palestinian  parliament-in-exile, in the Gaza Strip during Clinton's visit.
At  the gathering, the PNC and other Palestinians in attendance are to  reaffirm the nullification of clauses in their national charter that  call for Israel's destruction.
Israel has demanded that the Palestinians  hold an actual vote at the meeting rather than simply proclaiming  the charter changed, but the Palestinians on Sunday repeated their  objections to that.
``They haven't the right to give us instructions,''  Arafat said Sunday as he returned to Gaza following a trip to Europe.
Clinton's visit to Israel and the Palestinian lands, which is to begin  Saturday, is meant to provide impetus to the U.S.-brokered peace accords  and encourage both sides to stick to a timetable for compliance.
But  some commentators suggested the visit was proving a polarizing force  instead.
``He is coming to promote the peace process... but his visit's  only actual result is a sharpening of the differences,'' Yosef Lapid  wrote in Sunday's editions of the Maariv newspaper.
In Israel, increasing  concern is being voiced over Clinton's planned visit to Gaza, the  first ever by a sitting U.S. president.
At Sunday's Israeli Cabinet  meeting, a shouting match broke out over the issue, according to Israel  radio.
``Who invited President Clinton to the Gaza Strip?''
Silvan  Shalom, the science minister, reportedly yelled at Netanyahu.
Netanyahu  said it had been Clinton's idea, not his.
The United States has repeatedly  said the visit is not intended as an endorsement of Palestinian statehood,  but the Palestinians see it as a powerful boost to their sovereignty  hopes.
Arafat adviser Ahmed Tibi said on Israeli television that the  invitation for a Clinton visit came from Israel and was ``warmly welcomed''  by the Palestinians.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday accused Yasser Arafat  of ``making a farce'' of the Wye River accords and said he would not  agree to further troop withdrawals until a halt to anti-Israel violence.
Netanyahu, in an interview with The Associated Press, said the Palestinians  were emboldened to foment street riots and threaten to declare statehood  because they believed they had the Clinton administration ``in their  back pocket.''
``The Palestinians are making a farce out of the Wye  River accord.
They think they have the United States in their back  pocket,'' said the Israeli leader.
``As long as that is the case,  they will not change their behavior.''
Netanyahu said he did not believe  the United States was siding with the Palestinians, but his sharply  worded remarks sent a strong signal that he would like President Bill  Clinton to intervene and lower Palestinian expectations prior to his  Dec. 12-15 trip.
Palestinians claim it is Israel that has violated  the summit agreement reached in October by not freeing jailed political  activists, by confiscating West Bank land for roads and allowing Jewish  settlers to seize hilltops for expansion.
Ahmed Qureia, speaker of  the Palestinian Legislative Council and the head of the peace team  that negotiated the Oslo accords, told reporters Sunday ``all means  of resistance'' was justified in opposing settler activity.
Netanyahu,  who rejected claims of settlement expansion as ``bunk,'' was interviewed  in the Cabinet room after a meeting of his unruly coalition government,  which rallied behind Netanyahu on his tough stance.
But officials  said Science Minister Silvan Shalom attacked him for being too generous  to the Palestinians by agreeing to the Clinton visit next week to  Gaza and the West Bank.
``We are not going to give up territory when  there are violations of the agreement and attempts to get things that  weren't achieved at Wye using violence,'' Netanyahu said.
Israel has  threatened to scrap the next Israeli troop pullback, which is scheduled  for Dec. 18, three days after Clinton's departure.
The United States  has said it should go ahead as scheduled.
Palestinians see the Clinton  trip as implicit recognition of their struggle for statehood, even  though Clinton has specifically said in an interview aired on Israel's  Channel 2 television that it should not be read that way.
Netanyahu  made clear that he would be annoyed if Air Force One landed at the  newly opened Palestinian airport in Gaza, which aides said would be  viewed as a strong symbol of support for Palestinian demands for sovereignty.
``We will be very disappointed if that is the case.
We've said to  the United States that we don't think that is necessary,'' Netanyahu  said of reports that Clinton's plane would land in Gaza.
He said traveling  by motorcade would be quicker and more politically considerate.
``Unless  somebody wants to put a thumb in our eye, I think there are better  ways to travel,'' Netanyahu said.
In the interview, Netanyahu stressed  that he opposed Palestinian statehood and demanded that Arafat stop  threatening to declare independence on May 4, 1999, when the Palestinians  maintain the Oslo accords expire.
``What must be is that Yasser Arafat  retracts this open and incipient violation of the Oslo and Wye River  accords and recommits himself to negotiating until we get white smoke,  until we get a solution.
That's the only way we'll get a real peace  between Israel and the Palestinians,'' Netanyahu said.
In a conciliatory  speech in Sweden over the weekend, Arafat stressed that he sought  a negotiated settlement and did not mention May 4 as a deadline.
He  also said any Palestinian state would not make alliances with states  one of Netanyahu's key concerns.
The Israeli leader  is also demanding that Arafat drop claims that Netanyahu promised  at Wye to release 750 Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel attacks  that resulted in bloodshed, rather than freeing car thieves and petty  criminals.
Each side has a different interpretation of the understanding  regarding the prisoners.
Netanyahu maintains he never agreed to free  those with ``blood on their hands.''
``It's high time that Yasser  Arafat admits this was agreed upon and that he's not going to make  demands on Israel, including the incitement of violence,...on a trumped-up  charge, '' he said.
``Israel never promised to release murders at  Wye, and it won't release them.''
The issue has been the focal point  for a new wave of violent protests and demonstrations in the West  Bank and a hunger strike that began Saturday by the 1,700 Palestinian  inmates.
Israel is also upset by statements that the nearly 600-member  Palestinian National Council will not reaffirm in a vote that anti-Israel  clauses in the Palestinian charter have been deleted.
Netanyahu maintained  that only 25 members out of hundreds who live abroad had been invited  so far.
Netanyahu quoted Clinton as telling him that the purpose of  his visit was to ``personally make sure that they actually rescind  this charter that calls for Israel's destruction.''
The radical Islamic group Hamas on Monday denounced U.S. President  Bill Clinton's upcoming visit to the Gaza Strip but carefully avoided  making any threats against him.
Hamas is, 2nd graf pvs
Armored personnel carriers were deployed Tuesday around the convention  center where U.S. President Bill Clinton will address 1,500 Palestinian  delegates next week.
U.S. Secret Service agents have already arrived  in Gaza to work with their Palestinian counterparts on how to protect  Clinton during his first visit to Palestinian areas.
``There is cooperation  with the American security people.
We have our own plan.
The Americans  have their own procedures as well,'' said the Palestinian police chief,  Ghazi Jabali.
The Islamic militant group Hamas, which hopes to scuttle  the accord, has been careful not to openly threaten Clinton.
However,  Hamas has carried out more than a dozen suicide bombings in Israel  in an attempt to bring peace talks with Israel to a halt.
On Monday,  Clinton and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat are to address members  of the Palestine National Council and delegates from other groups,  at the Shawa Cultural Center in Gaza City.
Traffic near the Shawa  Center still flowed normally Tuesday, but plainclothes security as  well as uniformed officers with M-17 and AK-47 assault rifles began  patrolling in the vicinity.
Streets around the center are to be closed  days before the Clinton visit.
Four armored personnel were parked  at the corners of the convention center, with members of Arafat's  elite bodyguard unit, known as Force 17, sitting on the vehicles.
APCs were also deployed outside Arafat's guest house and near the  Palestinian legislative council.
Jabali said the APCs were part of  a Palestinian security plan that has been presented to the Americans.
U.S. security agents, in turn, have given their Palestinian counterparts  sophisticated explosives detection equipment.
``The Palestinian police  are ready to protect President Clinton here in Gaza or in Bethlehem,''  Jabali said, referring to Clinton's expected visit next Tuesday to  the Church of the Nativity in the biblical West Bank town of Bethlehem  In Jerusalem, Clinton's entourage of 1,200 people will take over the  Jerusalem Hilton, at a cost of half a million dollars.
The hotel boasts  stunning views of Jerusalem's walled Old City and the slopes of the  Judean Desert.
Keeping a promise to Israel and the United States, Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat on Thursday convened senior officials and legislators  to revoke clauses of the PLO founding charter calling for Israel's  destruction.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, meanwhile,  said he has ordered the Israeli army to deal with Palestinian riots  with a ``firm hand.''
He added that he would not go ahead with a West  Bank troop pullback, as promised under the Wye River peace agreement,  unless Arafat met a list of demands.
The West Bank has been swept  by stone-throwing protests in recent days, and thousands of Palestinians  marched Thursday in the funeral procession of a 17-year-old stone  mason, Jihad Iyad, who was killed by Israeli army gunfire a day earlier.
The violence raised concern that U.S. President Bill Clinton's visit  to the region, which is to start late Saturday, is fomenting more  unrest rather than calming the already tense situation.
Israeli hard-liners,  including Cabinet ministers, have said Clinton's visit is conferring  statehood status on the Palestinian areas.
On Thursday, signs reading  ``Clinton go home'' were strung along the Tel Aviv-Jerusalem highway  and on walls in Jerusalem.
The most problematic moment of the Clinton  visit will be his address Monday to the Palestine National Council,  the Palestinians' parliament-in-exile, and other Palestinian groups,  in Gaza City.
Under the Wye agreement, the PNC is to reaffirm during  this session an Arafat letter to Clinton which declares clauses of  the PLO founding charter calling for Israel's destruction revoked.
Israel insists a vote be taken by a show of hands, while the Palestinians  say only approval by acclamation is required.
Netanyahu said Thursday  he will not settle for anything less than a vote, even if Clinton  declares the PNC session a success without it.
``It is Israel which  determines issues connected with its future,'' Netanyahu said when  asked by Israel radio whether he would be ready to enter a showdown  with Clinton over the issue.
It is unlikely the U.S. president would  side with Israel in such a dispute because it would mean that the  main purpose of his visit, to usher in the next stage of the Wye agreement,  had failed.
Immediately after the PNC session, Israel is to transfer  five percent of the West Bank from its sole control to joint jurisdiction.
Netanyahu said last week he was freezing the pullback over what he  claimed were systematic Palestinian violations of the peace accord.
He reiterated Thursday that he would not change his decision unless  Arafat publicly dropped plans to unilaterally declare a Palestinian  state in May.
The prime minister's critics have said he is seizing  excuse after excuse to walk away from the agreement because he faces  a very real threat from hard-liners in his coalition to bring down  the government in the event of another troop withdrawal.
The Palestinians,  meanwhile, pressed ahead with implementing the accord.
On Thursday,  98 members of the 124-member Palestinian Central Council met at Arafat's  seaside headquarters to hold a vote on whether to approve the Arafat  letter concerning the PLO charter.
The meeting is an interim step,  ahead of Monday's PNC session, and is stipulated by the Wye agreement.
A simple majority of 63 members is required, and a vote was expected  by Thursday evening.
The council has not met for years and was revived  specifically for Thursday's vote.
It consists of PNC delegates, members  of the Palestinian legislative council and the PLO Executive Committee,  among others.
Israel affirmed Friday that it will not withdraw troops in the West  Bank unless the top Palestinian decision-making body holds a vote  to annul clauses of the PLO charter calling for Israel's destruction.
Just a day before U.S. President Bill Clinton's arrival, Israel also  rejected a U.S. compromise on the release of Palestinian prisoners,  an issue that has sparked riots in the West Bank.
The Palestinians  have said they would revoke the clauses only by acclamation, not by  a vote, when the Palestine National Council meets on Monday in Clinton's  presence.
With its demand, Israel may be setting itself up for a showdown  with Clinton whose visit to Israel and the Palestinian is ushering  in the next stage of the Wye River land-for-security agreement he  helped negotiate.
Under the accord, the annulment of the offending  provisions by the PNC is to clear the way for an Israeli troop pullback.
Clinton is unlikely to declare the PNC has not completed its task  because that would mean his high-profile visit has been a failure.
However, Israeli officials said they would not drop their demand for  a vote.
``They have to vote in the PNC,'' said Israeli government  spokesman Moshe Fogel.
Otherwise, he said, Israel will not turn over  additional West Bank territory to the Palestinians because ``transfer  of territory is irreversible.''
In Washington, deputy U.S. State Department  spokesman James Foley was evasive on whether the United States expected  a vote from the PNC.
``The procedures need to be clear enough that  nullification has taken place,'' he said.
A senior Palestinian official,  speaking on condition of anonymity, said the United States has not  asked Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to consider holding a vote.
On Thursday, the Palestinians took an interim step when a smaller  leadership body, the 124-member Palestinian Central Council, declared  the charter clauses revoked.
The 95 members present were asked whether  they approved a letter in which Arafat informed Clinton that the charter  clauses calling for Israel's destruction were null and void.
In all,  81 voted in favor, seven against and seven abstained.
Asked about  the decision, Arafat would only say that ``it was a very important  and constructive meeting.''
The Palestinian leader also said he hoped  Clinton would exert pressure on Israel to keep its obligations under  the Wye agreement.
The Palestine Liberation Organization charter was  drawn up three decades ago, long before Israel and the Palestinians  started their peace process in 1993.
The Palestinians say they took  all the required steps to revoke the pertinent clauses at a PNC session  in Gaza in 1996.
However, Netanyahu has said the PNC never completed  the job.
During the Wye River talks, the Palestinians agreed in a  compromise to invite PNC members and delegates from other groups to  Gaza to hear Clinton and Arafat speak.
The Wye accord says delegates  should ``reaffirm'' the Arafat letter to Clinton, but does not specifically  refer to a vote.
Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres sided  with the Palestinians on Friday.
``They did it once, they did it twice,  they don't have to do it again,'' said Peres, who was prime minister  during the PNC vote in 1996.
Israel and the Palestinians have also  accused each other of violating other elements of the Wye agreement.
A key point of contention has been Israel's pledge to release 750  Palestinian prisoners in three stages by the end of January.
The Palestinians  have said Israel broke a promise to release prisoners held for anti-Israeli  activities.
Israel said it never made such a pledge, and accused the  Palestinian Authority of incitement over the prisoner issue.
Palestinian  negotiator Saeb Erekat said the United States offered a compromise,  a trilateral committee to go over the list of prisoners one by one  and determine who will be released.
But Israeli Cabinet Secretary  Danny Naveh said Friday such a proposal was unacceptable.
``Israel  has not been offered such a compromise and there will not be such  a compromise,'' Naveh said.
On Friday, about 2,000 supporters of the  Islamic militant Hamas movement marched through the West Bank town  of Nablus to press for the release or prisoners.
``We want prisoners,  not Clinton,'' the crowd chanted.
At Jerusalem's Al Aqsa Mosque, Islam's  third holiest site, the prayer leader, Yousef Abu Sneineh, spoke out  sharply against the U.S.-brokered peace agreement.
``America supports  a peace agreement that further reinforces the Israeli occupation of  the Palestinian lands,'' he said.
stones, spent  tear gas canisters, charred remnants of half-burned tires _ a sodden  Palestinian flag flaps in a fitful rain-laden wind outside a house  in mourning.
Inside, to the tinny recorded wail of Koranic verses,  neighbors and relatives of the dead man _ a 21-year-old university  student felled on the roof of his own home by an Israeli soldier's  rubber-coated bullet _ sipped tiny cups of coffee left unsweetened  to symbolize the bitter occasion.
Some smoked, a few spoke quietly  among themselves, but most simply sat in reflective silence.
Among  those in attendance on this day, the first of the traditional three  days of family mourning, was Saeb Erekat, the chief peace negotiator  for Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority.
The dead youth, Nasr Erekat,  was a cousin of his.
Erekat stayed for a time, sitting amid clan elders  in Arab headdresses and teen-age nephews in American-style athletic  shoes, then slipped away for a meeting in connection with President  Clinton's visit beginning this weekend.
``It's been very difficult,''  he said later, asked about carrying on his negotiating duties at such  a time.
``I have a great sense of sorrow and sadness, a feeling of  such loss.
I hope God will enable me to use my grief to strengthen  my determination for peace.''
The scene at the Erekat home, in the  Arab village of Abu Dis on Jerusalem's eastern outskirts, drives home  a central truth about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict: on both sides  of the divide, the political is also deeply personal.
And that inescapability  goes to the heart of the quarrel's intractability.
In the glare of  world attention, it is easy to forget that there are fewer people  living in Israel and the Palestinian lands combined than there are  in New York City.
In the small and jostling confines of what few here  choose to call the Holy Land, the conflict touches all.
Everyone has  a stake in it.
Israelis fret daily over soldier sons on dangerous  patrol in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, or shudder when they pass  a sidewalk cafe once ripped by an Islamic militant's suicide bomb.
Palestinian families struggle to keep alive the memories of fathers  and brothers languishing in Israeli prisons, and chafe under the checkpoints  and gunsights of Israeli troops.
On both sides, the youngest soak  up fear and anger along with their ABCs.
And elders' memories of half  a century past still rise to trouble the collective sleep: the shadow  of the Holocaust for Israelis, the trauma of exile and dispossession  for the Palestinians.
Against this backdrop, amid a landscape little  changed since biblical times, terrible Old Testament themes _ lamentation  and retribution, the smiting of enemies and the sharpening of swords  _ spring to life once again in any day's headlines.
Now comes Clinton,  this most American of presidents, one who has made Middle East peacemaking  a kind of personal crusade, in hopes of halting what has become one  of the century's most protracted blood feuds.
Clinton is no stranger  to these particular hatreds.
Three years ago, in another winter season,  he came here to bury Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, gunned down by  a nationalist Jew who could not abide the terms of a Mideast agreement  that called _ just as this latest accord does _ for Israel to cede  West Bank land in exchange for peace with the Palestinians.
On the  occasion of this visit _ first intended to celebrate the Wye River  accords signed seven weeks ago in Washington, now meant to salvage  them _ all three of the principals are embattled.
Clinton is under  an impeachment cloud; Arafat is buffeted by furious Palestinian street  protests and his own failing health, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's  coalition government is hanging by a thread.
The days leading up to  Clinton's visit have been divisive ones, contriving somehow to simultaneously  tap into both sides' greatest fears.
In the West Bank's worst spasm  of violence in months, Israelis watched windows of Israeli-plated  cars shatter from stones thrown by angry youths, saw TV footage of  a cringing Israeli soldier _ now facing court martial _ being beaten  bloody by a Palestinian mob, heard Palestinian officials' exhortations  for a new intefadeh, or uprising.
Palestinians, for their part, listened  in anger as Netanyahu announced the suspension of an upcoming Israeli  troop pullback in the West Bank and tried vainly to halt Israeli bulldozers  expanding Jewish settlements on land they claim as their own.
Both  sides _ to Palestinians' satisfaction, and Israel's dismay _ came  to see the visit as an implicit acknowledgement of Palestinian statehood  aspirations, despite increasingly desperate American efforts to avoid  casting it in that light.
Clinton's foray to the Gaza Strip, which  is already under Palestinian rule, will be the first by a sitting  American president.
Palestinians intend to play on that symbolism  for all it is worth, greeting him with the strains of their once-banned  national anthem.
In the mourning house in Abu Dis, though, the friends  and relatives of Nasr Erekat had little to say about politics and  statehood.
They talked about Nasr instead.
Amr Erekat, 27, recalled  his disbelief as he cradled his dying cousin in his arms.
His 14-year-old  brother Taher spoke haltingly of the big brother he had looked up  to.
His childhood friend, Samir Abdel Salam, remembered wishing he  had stuck to his studies as diligently as Nasr had.
Saeb Erekat, the  peace negotiator, could find neither lesson nor logic to his young  cousin's death.
``It's senseless, this rhythm of bloodshed,'' he said.
``At these difficult times, you pray for one thing, for both sides:  no more of it.''
In an atmosphere of political tension, U.S. President Clinton met  Sunday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a bid to  put the troubled Wye River peace accord back on track.
After getting  together for breakfast in Clinton's hotel suite, the two leaders met  at Netanyahu's office and planned to talk to reporters later.
The  president was sure to be asked about the impeachment drama unfolding  in Washington.
At a late-night arrival ceremony for Clinton Saturday,  Netanyahu said he hoped the president's visit would ``contribute to  true peace.''
Again, the Israeli leader accused the Palestinians of  ignoring commitments in peace accords.
Clinton is to meet with Palestinian  leader Yasser Arafat on Monday in the Gaza Strip.
Thousands of police  were deployed throughout Israel during the Clinton visit.
At the hotel  where Clinton is staying, 500 policemen were posted to guard the president  and his 600-member delegation.
Clinton's wife, Hillary, and their  daughter, Chelsea, set out on their own schedule.
Mrs. Clinton toured  a school in a cooperative village of Jews and Palestinians, while  Chelsea visited Jerusalem's Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site.
Israeli Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon told reporters during a picture-taking  session with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright that Israel ``has  not left'' the Wye River agreement.
``We will not give up'' on the  land-for-security accord, Sharon said.
But, he added, ``it should  be based on mutual reciprocity.''
About two hours before Air Force  One landed Saturday night, the House Judiciary Committee approved  a fourth article of impeachment against Clinton.
The full House will  vote on the impeachment articles next week.
Israeli government spokesman  Moshe Fogel was asked Sunday if the success of Clinton's visit would  turn on the question of revoking the Palestinian Liberation Organization's  founding charter.
``President Clinton played a very important role  in the Wye Memorandum and its success, and I think that it's going  to be very, very important that this visit show us at least a readiness  on the part of the Palestinian Authority to move forward in peace,''  Fogel said.
There was no letup in violence Sunday.
Palestinian stone  throwers clashed with Israeli troops and an Israeli high school student  was stabbed and wounded by a Palestinian teen-ager.
In his remarks  at Clinton's airport arrival Saturday night, Netanyahu said the peace  process is in danger.
``Mr. President,'' Netanyahu said, speaking  in Hebrew, ``The truth has to be told.
In recent weeks the Palestinians  again constantly, systematically and intentionally violated all their  commitments.
We are not entitled, not able and not prepared to forgo  fulfillment of those commitments.''
Netanyahu, who is facing political  turmoil in his hard-line coalition government, said he could not accept  ``a phony peace on paper'' which is ``not honored in practice.''
Since  Clinton presided over its signing in Washington in October, the land-for-security  agreement has hit one snag after another.
Israel froze implementation  of the accord altogether, accusing Arafat of violating the deal and  inciting violent street protests.
Clinton said the United States shares  Israel's concerns about security.
``Peace is not simply an option  among many but the only choice that can avert still more years of  bloodshed, apprehension and sorrow,'' he said.
``That is why I'm here.''
He said ``both sides now must face the challenge of implementing Wye.''
Both Clinton and Netanyahu have a shaky political future.
The Israeli  leader is fighting for his political survival as parliament prepares  for a no-confidence vote within two weeks.
His coalition began to  weaken after he and Arafat signed the Wye River Memorandum Oct. 23  agreeing to turn over 13 percent of West Bank territory to be met  by Palestinian security measures.
Netanyahu has said there would be  no further troop withdrawals until West Bank rioting and violence  ends.
Israel and the Palestinians are also in bitter disagreement  over procedures for revoking passages in the Palestinian charter calling  for Israel's destruction and the release of Palestinian prisoners  held in Israeli jails for militant or political acts against the Jewish  state.
On Monday, the president is to fly to the Palestinian-run Gaza  Strip to be welcomed by Arafat with the trappings of a state visit.
Clinton's visit to Gaza and his address to the Palestinian National  Council is seen by some as a boost for dreams of Palestinian statehood.
``It implies de facto recognition of a Palestinian state,'' Ziyad  Abu Ziyad, a member of the Palestinian legislative council, said in  an interview Sunday.
Benjamin Netanyahu's refusal to move the peace process forward, which  has frustrated President Bill Clinton and angered the Palestinians,  may not be enough to save his government from collapse next week.
Netanyahu on Wednesday briefed his Cabinet on Clinton's three-day  that  he would not withdraw troops in the West Bank on Friday, as stipulated  by the Wye River peace accord.
Clinton had hoped, 3rd graf pvs
President Clinton will travel to Gaza next month to address Palestinian  leaders, the White House said Friday.
He is to speak at what the Palestinians  are describing as a historic meeting to formally revoke anti-Israel  clauses in the 1964 Palestinian charter.
Israel demanded revocation  of the clauses at U.S.-brokered negotiations last month that led to  the latest land-for-peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.
As part of that settlement, reached at Wye, Md., Clinton agreed to  travel to territory controlled by the Palestinian Authority to speak  at the meeting of the Palestinian National Council, the de facto parliament.
According to a schedule released Friday by the White House, Clinton  will visit Gaza, the West Bank and Israel during a four-day trip that  will begin on Dec. 12.
He is to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin  Netanyahu of Israel and Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, before  returning to Washington on Dec. 15.
Clinton administration officials  said the White House had not yet decided whether Clinton would fly  to the newly opened Gaza International Airport aboard Air Force One,  given the symbolism of the president's jet landing on Palestinian  soil with the trappings of a state visit.
Officials said the White  House was fearful of upsetting Israeli leaders who are worried that  the president's planned visit to Gaza appears to be a step toward  American recognition of a Palestinian state.
The White House said  the president would ``speak to the Israeli and Palestinian people  about the importance of the Wye agreement and the need to continue  to support the Middle East peace process.''
The meeting in Gaza on  Dec. 14 is bound to be contentious, given that many prominent Palestinians  have charged that the Wye agreement allows the Israeli government  to backtrack on promises made to the Palestinians in their 1994 peace  settlement.
The Palestinians have insisted that they have already  revoked clauses in the 1964 charter that called for Israel's destruction.
In January, Arafat wrote to the White House, listing the anti-Israel  provisions that he said had been annulled.
But the letter did not  satisfy the Israelis.
And during the talks in Maryland last month,  Arafat agreed to call a meeting of the national council to ``reaffirm''  the decision to revoke the clauses.
In order to guarantee passage  of a motion to annul the provisions, Arafat is being allowed under  an agreement with the Israelis and the United States to pack the council  meeting in Gaza with his loyalists, and to conduct the vote by a show  of hands instead of a ballot.
During a recent interview with Israeli  television, Clinton brushed aside concerns that his visit to Gaza  might be seen as a step toward U.S. recognition of a Palestinian state.
``That is not what I'm doing in going there,'' he said.
``I have tried  strictly to adhere to the position of the United States that we would  not take a position on any final status issue.''
He said he was traveling  to Gaza at the recommendation of, among others, Netanyahu.
``The prime  minister wanted me to go there and wanted us all to make this pitch,''  he said, adding that he would ask the Palestinian National Council  ``to support the peace and to renounce the idea of animosity toward  and opposition to the existence of the state of Israel, and instead  embrace the path not only of peace but of cooperation.''
Italy's Communist Refounding Party rejected Prime Minister Prodi's proposed 1999 budget.
Loss of the party's support put his 2.5-year coalition at risk.
The proposed budget was needed to meet terms for the Jan. 1 switch to the euro currency.
Prodi met with President Scalfaro and Parliament, trying to save his government.
The break with Prodi divided the Refounding party.
Prodi lost a confidence vote and was toppled from power.
He will stay as caretaker until a new government is formed.
Scalfaro must decide whether to hold new elections or to ask Prodi or someone else to forge a new majority.
He is talking with political leaders, trying to reach a consensus.
Communist Refounding Party vote against proposed deficit-cutting 1999 budget in Italy's Parliament could destabilize the government.
The defection imperils the future of the center-left coalition led by Premier Prodi.
His 2-1/2-year-old alliance was the longest serving of 55 governments in Italy since WWII.
Prodi.
who appealed to Parliament to save the government with a confidence vote, lost the vote and fell from power.
The break with Prodi's party also divided Refounding.
Prodi stays as caretaker premier while President Scalfaro decides either to hold new elections or to force Prodi or someone else to form a new coalition out of the 40 parties in Italy.
Italy's Communist Refoundation Party rejected PM Prodi's deficit-cutting budget for insufficient job stimulation.
Italy needed to reduce its deficit to participate in the euro, a unifying desire that largely held together Prodi's 2.5-year gov't, the 55th since WWII.
The rejection divided communists, whose 34 votes Prodi's coalition needed for a majority.
A confidence vote lost by 1 vote, from a member of Prodi's own party.
Italy's political instability clouded decisions on NATO's use of Italian air bases in strikes on Kosovo.
Prodi resigned but Italy's president asked him to stay as caretaker until either early elections were called or he named a new PM.
Despite support from a breakaway faction of the far-left Communist Refounding Party, Italy's Prime Minister Romano Prodi lost a vote of confidence in Parliament, 313 - 312.
The crisis was triggered when the Refounding Party rejected the government's 1999 budget.
A respected economist with a fragile center-left coalition, Prodi was in office for 30 months, instituting fiscal reforms that qualified Italy for membership in the euro plan.
Prodi was asked to remain as caretaker prime minister; however, as such, he will have difficulty passing the budget (necessary before joining the euro on 1 Jan.) or getting approval for actions related to the Kosovo crisis.
Italy's Communists on Sunday voted to withdraw support for Premier  Romano Prodi's 2 1-2-year-old coalition, a move expected to trigger  the collapse of one of the country's longest-lived postwar governments.
Prodi had said he would call a confidence vote if the Communists yanked  support.
The coalition has a majority without the Communists in the  Senate, but has depended on them for passage of key legislation in  the Chamber.
MORE
Premier Romano Prodi said Monday he would appeal directly to Parliament  to save Italy's second-longest government since World War II, threatened  with collapse by the defection of its Communist ally.
The address  to Parliament was expected Wednesday, followed perhaps by Friday by  the vote of confidence that will determine whether Prodi's 2 1/2-year-old,  center-left alliance stands or falls.
Prodi's far-left ally, the Communist  Refoundation Party, provoked the crisis by withdrawing its support  over the weekend and saying it would not vote for his deficit-cutting  1999 budget, which is key to Italy's participation in the European  common currency.
Prodi has said he would call a confidence vote if  he lost the Communists' support.
``I've always acted with coherence,''  Prodi said before a morning meeting with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro  on the crisis.
``I've never changed strategy and I don't want to do  political gymnastics.''
The break with Prodi's government divided  Refoundation.
Armando Cossutta, leader of the moderate wing, resigned  as party president Monday.
He said the party's desertion of Prodi  was ``wrong and dangerous,'' but at the same time promised to follow  the party line.
``We are in a very complicated political crisis which  could lead to early elections,'' Cossutta told reporters Monday.
``And  with the divisions in the left, this would mean a victory for the  right.''
If the crisis comes to a confidence vote and Prodi loses,  he would offer his resignation.
Once he does that, it is up to Scalfaro  to decide what to do.
He could ask Prodi or someone else to form a  new government or he could call elections 2 1/2 years early, something  most analysts think unlikely.
Working in Prodi's favor is the fact  that few parties think they would stand to gain by early elections,  including the Communist Refoundation.
There was speculation Prodi  would reopen negotiations that would win back the communists' grudging  support, as he has managed to do in the past.
Prodi's government has  held together this long in large part because of the widely shared  desire to see Italy qualify for participation in the 1999 debut of  Europe's common currency, the euro.
That happened earlier this year  leaving the disparate allies without so clear a reason to stay together.
Prodi leads Italy's 55th government since World War II.
He has outlasted  all but Bettino Craxi, who served 3{ years in two back-to-back stints  from 1983 to 1987.
Refoundation is not part of Prodi's center-left  coalition, but the government needs its 34 votes to muster a majority  in the lower house.
It has been a difficult ally from the outset.
It broke with Prodi over NATO expansion earlier this year and on sending  troops into Albania last year.
Prodi was even forced to resign a year  ago after a bitter battle over spending cuts linked to the euro.
The  crisis was resolved, and Prodi returned to work, after he made steep  concessions and promised a 35-hour work week.
Premier Romano Prodi battled Tuesday for any votes freed up from a  split in a far-left party, but said he will resign if he loses a confidence  vote expected later this week.
``We must respect the will of the voters.
If we win the confidence vote, we will go ahead, otherwise we will  pass the baton,'' Prodi told a news conference closing a two-day French-Italian  summit in Florence.
Prodi's center-left government, Italy's second-longest  since World War II, was threatened with collapse by the defection  of its Communist ally.
The premier will address Parliament Wednesday,  followed perhaps by Friday by the vote of confidence that will determine  whether the 2 1/2-year-old, center-left alliance stands or falls.
The Communist Refoundation Party provoked the crisis by withdrawing  its support over the weekend and saying it would not vote for his  deficit-cutting 1999 budget.
But the break with Prodi's government  divided Refoundation.
Armando Cossutta, leader of the moderate wing,  resigned as party president Monday, saying the party's hardline stance  was ``wrong and dangerous.''
Prodi was hoping to profit from the break.
Politicians have said Prodi is now four votes short of the 316 votes  needed for a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, the lower house.
The government has a majority in the Senate even without Refoundation's  support.
After his meetings with French leaders, Prodi warned that  the political difficulties threaten the progress the country is making  in cleaning up its public finances.
Prodi's government has held together  this long in large part because of the widely shared desire to see  Italy qualify for the 1999 debut of Europe's common currency, the  leaving the disparate allies  without so clear a reason to stay together.
As it is, Prodi has outlasted  all but Bettino Craxi, who served 3{ years in two back-to-back stints  from 1983 to 1987.
Prodi's is Italy's 55th government since World  War II.
By one vote, Premier Romano Prodi's center-left coalition lost a confidence  vote in the Chamber of Deputies Friday, and he went to the presidential  palace to resign.
President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro must now decide whether  to call early elections or to ask Prodi or someone else to try to  forge a new majority.
The vote in the lower chamber of Parliament  313 against the confidence motion brought by the government to 312  in favor.
``I'm not bitter,'' Prodi said immediately after his government  went down.
The swing vote came from Prodi's own coalition, a defecting  deputy from Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini's tiny Italian Renewal  party.
The Communist, 6th graf prv
By one vote, Premier Romano Prodi's center-left coalition lost a confidence  vote in the Chamber of Deputies Friday, and he went to the presidential  palace to resign.
President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro must now decide whether  to call early elections or to ask Prodi or someone else to try to  forge a new majority.
The vote in the lower chamber of Parliament  313 against the confidence motion brought by the government to 312  in favor.
``I'm not bitter,'' Prodi said immediately after his government  went down.
The swing vote came from Prodi's own coalition, a defecting  deputy from Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini's tiny Italian Renewal  party.
The Communist, 6th graf prv
By one vote, a defector from its own ranks, Premier Romano Prodi's  center-left coalition, Italy's second-longest serving government since  World War II, lost a confidence vote Friday in the Chamber of Deputies.
Prodi immediately offered his resignation to President Oscar Luigi  Scalfaro, who asked him to stay on as caretaker premier while the  head of state decides whether to call early elections or ask someone  else to be premier.
The vote, 3rd graf prv
Three days after the collapse of Premier Romano Prodi's center-left  government, Italy's president began calling in political leaders Monday  to try to reach a consensus on a new government.
Following the talks,  which are expected to last several days, President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro  could ask Prodi to try again with a new majority.
He could also name  a new premier, or appoint a government of technocrats.
If Scalfaro  feels no candidate is capable of mustering a majority, he could call  early elections.
Because the president cannot dissolve Parliament  during the last six weeks of his term, elections would have to be  scheduled by December.
Scalfaro has named Prodi as caretaker premier  for the interim.
Prodi's far-left ally, Communist Refoundation, provoked  the crisis when it withdrew support for the government over the 1999  deficit-cutting budget, which it said did not do enough to stimulate  job creation.
Despite help from a breakaway faction of the Communists,  who on Sunday formed a new party, Prodi lost Friday's vote of confidence  by a single vote.
Prodi has said he won't take the job back unless  his new government could stick to the policies of its old one, an  unlikely scenario given the divided Parliament.
An alternative to  Prodi could be Massimo D'Alema, leader of the Democrats of the Left,  the largest party in Prodi's coalition.
In the case of a so-called  ``technical'' government, the names of Treasury Minister Carlo Azeglio  Ciampi and Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini have been circulated.
A  government of technicians would get Italy through the volatile period  of approving the 1999 budget and the launch of the common European  currency, the euro, in January 1999.
Prodi presided over cost cuts  that got Italy into the debut of the European Monetary Union, outlasting  all but one other post-World War II Italian government in the process.
It is autumn in Italy, the birds are going south, and so it seems  could the Italian government, as the bonds of compromise and political  opportunism that bind a small leftist party to the government came  undone Sunday.
The latest threat to the government of Prime Minister  Romano Prodi came after delegates to a two-day conference of the Communist  Refounding Party voted to reject the government's proposed 1999 budget,  imperiling the future of the center-left coalition.
Officials in the  prime minister's office said Sunday night that Prodi would meet on  Monday with President Oskar Luigi Scalfaro to discuss the political  turbulence, though not to offer his resignation.
If the Communist  Refounding's parliamentary deputies abide by the resolution, which  passed by a vote of 188-112, it will destabilize Italy's government  at a time when the outcome of the recent election in Germany has already  injected a note of uncertainty into the future of European economic  and fiscal policy.
Mauro Zani, a spokesman for the Democratic Party  of the Left, the main party in Prodi's coalition, called the decision  by Communist Refounding a ``misfortune for the entire country.''
Passage  of the budget, he said, is essential ``to avoid disaster.''
Prodi's  coalition is a loose alliance of the former Communists, known as the  Democratic Party of the Left, and Prodi's moderate Catholic-oriented  followers.
It is supported by Communist Refounding, a fringe group  of hard-line leftists who broke with the mainstream Communists after  they overhauled the party following the collapse of Communism in Eastern  Europe.
Despite frequent shocks, the alliance has held since 1996,  glued together mainly by the desire to meet the fiscal requirements  to allow Italy to adopt the single European currency.
As the Jan.
1 date approaches for the introduction of the new money, the euro,  Italy must cut its key lending rates to bring them in line with those  of bigger European neighbors, like Germany.
A rate cut by the Italian  central bank is generally thought to hinge on passage of the budget  bill.
If the bill is not passed, negative signals would be sent to  global financial markets that are already upset because of the financial  crises in Asia, Russia and Latin America.
On Sunday, Prodi's backers  were still hoping that a sufficient number of Communist Refounding  deputies would break ranks and back the budget when it comes up for  a vote in Parliament later this week.
If that fails, a centrist group  that rescued Prodi in June under similar circumstances and that is  led by former President Francesco Cossiga announced it would support  the budget, thus at least assuring parliamentary passage.
Communist  Refounding and its mercurial leader, Fausto Bertinotti, have pushed  Prodi to the brink twice before.
The party forced him to offer his  resignation last year over proposed budget cuts, but then backpeddled  after the party's rank and file protested.
In June, the hard-line  leftists again refused to follow the prime minister, that time in  a Parliament vote for NATO expansion, but the government muddled through  with the help of Cossiga's party.
But one of the leaders of that centrist  group, Clemente Mastella, said Sunday that it would not support the  government generally, leaving the future of Prodi's coalition highly  uncertain.
Italian politics have long been enlivened by baroque feuds and shifting  alliances.
And that time-honored tradition may have won the embattled  government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi a momentary reprieve.
A  leader of Italy's hard-line Marxist faction, known as the Communist  Refounding Party, resigned Monday in protest over his party's decision  to reject the government's 1999 budget and imperil Prodi's slender  majority in Parliament.
``Prodi must realize that his majority no  longer exists,'' said Armando Cossuta, chairman of the Communist Refounding  Party, a fringe group that broke with mainstream Communists after  they overhauled the party following the collapse of the Soviet Union  in 1991.
``Nevertheless we should do everything possible, until the  last minute, to save this government and avoid this crisis.''
Cossuta  was clearly unwilling to join the most hard-line wing of his party  in withdrawing support from Prodi and risk being branded as having  torpedoed the first leftist Italian government in 50 years.
But the  leader of the Communist Refounding Party in Parliament, Fausto Bertinotti,  seems to have no such compunctions.
On Friday, he told journalists  that he was not worried about forcing new elections that could return  the right to power.
``Sometimes you have to take one step back in  order to take two steps forward,'' he said with a shrug.
Until now,  however, the communist rank and file have disagreed with that view.
When Bertinotti forced Prodi to offer his resignation last year over  proposed budget cuts, the rank and file protested, and he was forced  to backpedal.
Prodi met Monday with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro  and coalition leaders to devise a strategy.
He is expected to go to  Parliament on Wednesday to open debate on the crisis and seek enough  votes for the budget.
Without it, the Italian central bank is unlikely  to cut its key lending rates, something Italy must do to get in line  with Germany and other bigger European neighbors before the introduction  Jan. 1 of the single European currency, the euro.
But even if he gathers  enough votes to pass the budget, Prodi could still be left without  a majority.
After two and a half years in office, his government is  the second-longest in the postwar era.
But the fragile center-left  coalition has held together mostly because Italians were united for  the last two years in an effort to reduce spending, inflation and  government borrowing to meet the requirements for membership in the  euro plan.
Once that goal was achieved last spring, dissension quickly  revived.
Prodi's backers are hoping that enough members of the Communist  Refounding Party will break ranks and follow Cossutta to save the  coalition.
If not, Prodi is faced with two unappetizing choices.
He  can resign and seek new elections, which carry the risk of bringing  the opposition to power.
Or he could seek to form a new majority without  the Communists by seeking an alliance with the small center-right  party of Francesco Cossiga.
Cossiga's party came to Prodi's rescue  in June, when the hard-line leftists refused to back Prodi on NATO  expansion.
But Prodi has repeatedly said he will govern only with  the center-left majority that elected him in 1996.
Cossiga also suggested  to reporters Monday that he would not welcome any invitations to join  a coalition led by Prodi.
``We wouldn't want this majority to get  stained like Monica Lewinsky's dress,'' he said.
By only one vote, the center-left prime minister of Italy, Romano  Prodi, lost a confidence vote in Parliament Friday and was toppled  from power.
The collapse of his government after two and a half years,  the second-longest tenure since World War II, suggested that the chronic  political instability that marked Italy for decades had sprung back  to life.
Though obliged to tender his resignation, Prodi will remain  in charge as a caretaker prime minister until a new government is  formed.
He may get a second chance to form a new majority, but even  if he does, negotiations to that end could take days and even weeks,  clouding decisions on such urgent issues as the crisis in Kosovo.
NATO military planners preparing for possible air strikes against  Yugoslavia had expected to use key air bases in Italy.
In his weakened  position, Prodi will have difficulty persuading Parliament to approve  NATO strikes.
He will have similar problems passing the 1999 budget,  which is necessary before Italy can cut its lending rates, a requirement  for joining the single European monetary unit, the euro, on Jan. 1.
Immediately after Friday's vote of 313-312, in a tense and at times  raucous session, Prodi met with President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to  submit his resignation and discuss his options.
In the coming days  Scalfaro will consult with dozens of other leaders to ascertain whether  Prodi has enough lingering support to try to form a new government.
If not, the president is expected to turn to another political leader.
If no compromise is found, Italy could be plunged into early elections.
But parties of all political stripes may be reluctant to push things  that far, for opinion polls suggest that voters are no more enamored  of the center-right opposition parties than they are of the governing  majority.
Prodi, an economist, is admired by his Western allies as  a down-to-earth leader who vowed to tame Italy's bloated economy and  reckless government borrowing and actually lived up to his pledge.
By raising taxes, lowering interest rates and reducing the deficit,  Italy met the requirements for membership in the euro last spring,  a feat that only a year before was considered impossible by German  and French economists.
Prodi was helped by a healthy global economy  and a rare consensus among industrialists, labor unions and taxpayers,  who feared that exclusion from the euro would condemn Italy to Third  World status.
But his fiscal discipline was not followed by reform  of a political system that is inherently fragile.
There are more than  40 parties in Italy, and the government's efforts to amend the constitution  to introduce a two-party system failed.
``Unless the Italian political  system changes, Italy is condemned to political instability,'' said  Sergio Romano, a former diplomat and political science professor.
``The country needs stability and credibility, and that will never  happen as long as the government is hanging from a thread.''
In 1996  Prodi won with a patchwork quilt of center-left factions mostly made  up of Catholic moderates and leftists.
He relied on a fringe Marxist  group, the Communist Refounding Party, for a majority in the lower  house.
And that alliance, fragile from the beginning, finally frayed  to the breaking point this week.
The hard-line leader of Communist  Refounding, Fausto Bertinotti, said his party would vote against the  1999 budget and would also end its 28-month-old pact with the center-left  coalition.
That position drove the moderate wing of Communist Refounding,  worried that a vote against Prodi would open the doors to a center-right  government, to split away.
But the 20-odd deputies who defied Bertinotti  were not enough to squeeze Prodi through.
``I am not bitter,'' Prodi  said moments after his defeat.
``Even today I received a lot of support.''
In the end the coup de grace was delivered by one of his own, a member  of the coalition.
``They have won by the treachery of one single person,''  Sergio Mattarella, a deputy in Prodi's coalition, angrily told reporters,  referring to Silvio Liotta, a member of the Italian Renewal Party.
Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini, who heads that party, said Liotta  would be expelled.
Prodi has often said he would not govern with any  other majority than the center-left one that elected him in 1996.
But throughout his tenure, he was forced to seek temporary alliances  to push through major policy decisions.
He struggled to the last to  try to keep his original majority intact.
On Thursday, in an effort  to woo more moderate Communists to his side, the prime minister, a  staunch ally of the United States, warned that he would oppose a NATO  strike aimed at stopping Serbian violence in Kosovo unless the U.N.  Security Council approved the attack.
Washington maintains that NATO  does not need a new U.N. resolution to order a strike.
In Chechnya, 3-5 people a week, many of them children, are hurt by land mines.
The heads of 4 kidnapped foreign telephone engineers were found in Chechnya.
The hostages were decapitated during a failed rescue attempt.
Their bodies are missing.
One kidnapper was arrested.
The EU condemned the slayings.
The Chechen vice president showed a video of 1 of the hostages saying they all were British spies.
He refused to answer questions about the video.
A Chechen prosecutor investigating the kidnappings was himself abducted.
A French UN official, held hostage for 10 months, was freed unharmed in an operation at the Chechen border in which 3 kidnappers were killed.
Chechnya's independence war against Moscow has caused the death of innocent people.
Many died accidentally from explosives left behind by the Russians.
Hundreds, mostly foreigners, are being taken for ransom, some of whom have been killed.
The European Union is condemning the deaths of four kidnapped foreigners, three Briton, one New Zealander, whose heads were found near a remote village.
Chechen police are searching for the beheaded bodies.
A Chechen tape earlier showed one of the men admitting he was a British spy.
Rebels also kidnapped the Chechen prosecutor investigating the deaths.
He was later freed, as was a UN official and a Russian soldier.
Violence, deaths and kidnappings continue to plague the former Russian state of Chechnya two years after its independence.
Exploding landmines are a weekly occurrence.
Criminal bands are blamed for the kidnappings, usually for ransom and rarely deadly.
However, four UK Telecom engineers, hinted to be spies, were beheaded during a botched Chechen rescue attempt and their heads displayed along a road.
Britain and the European Union expressed outrage and sought Russian intervention.
The Chechen prosecutor was then abducted.
The prosecutor and a Russian soldier were subsequently freed and the Russians rescued a French UN official at the border with Chechnya.
Chechnya's top prosecutor, Mansur Tagirov, was abducted from Grozny, but released the next day.
Tagirov was investigating the slaying of four kidnapped foreigners.
The victims, all telephone linemen employed by the British firm Granger Telecom, were beheaded in a bungled rescue attempt.
Their heads were found near the city; the search for the bodies continues.
The Chechen Vice President showed a tape of one of the hostages, Peter Kennedy, during a news conference in which he claimed they were spies sent to Chechnya by the British to monitor phone calls; however, another official discounted the tape's value.
Kidnapping for ransom is common in Chechnya.
A truck blew up when it drove over a land mine in breakaway Chechnya  on Friday, killing two people and injuring two others, a news agency  said.
In another mine explosion, a tractor driver was killed Thursday  in the republic, the Interfax news agency reported, citing Chechnya's  security officials.
Chechnya's ambulance service said that three to  five people are hospitalized every week with injuries from mine explosions,  Interfax reported.
It did not say how many people are killed.
Many  of the victims are children, who dig the ground to look for ammunition  left over from Chechnya's two-year independence war against Moscow.
Russia withdrew its troops in 1996.
Chechnya considers itself an independent  state, although no country, including Russia, has recognized its independence.
Chechen authorities found the decapitated heads of four kidnapped  foreigners Tuesday along a highway near a remote village after a two-month  search in the breakaway region in southern Russia.
An Associated Press  reporter saw the severed heads near the village of Assinovskaya, about  40 kilometers (25 miles) west of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
He did  not see any sign of the bodies.
The heads were lined up on a piece  of cloth along a main highway across southern Russia, NTV television  reported.
The heads were identified as those of the four abducted  foreigners by Umar Makhauri, who had been a bodyguard assigned to  the four when they were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in  Grozny.
He said the bodies had not been found.
But Chechen government  officials at the scene said four bodies had been found without giving  further details.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said in Grozny  Britons  Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's  Stanley Shaw _ were engineers.
They were working for Granger Telecom,  a British telephone company, installing 300,000 telephone lines across  Chechnya.
Maskhadov said Chechen officials had caught one of the captors  Monday and he told police where the hostages were being held.
But  that information reached the other captors, who decided to kill their  captives, the ITAR-Tass news agency quoted Maskhadov as saying.
The  chief executive of Granger Telecom, Ray Verth, said Tuesday that Chechen  authorities had mounted a rescue attempt Monday night that went ``tragically  wrong.''
No other details were available.
He said the company had  ``opened a dialogue with the kidnappers and received confirmation  that the hostages were alive as recently as last week.''
``Their murder  is an appalling and barbaric act and our thoughts go out to the families  to whom we offer our deepest condolences.
We are a small tightly-knit  company and everyone here is in a state of shock,'' Verth said outside  company headquarters in Weybridge, south of London, where flags were  flying at half-mast.
Spokesmen at the British and New Zealand embassies  in Moscow said they were checking on reports the four men had been  killed, but could not comment.
The British Foreign Ministry in London  said it was investigating urgently reports that bodies had been found.
Chechen acting First Vice Premier Turpal Atgeriyev, who is heading  the investigation into the killings, said authorities had several  suspects in the abduction, but have failed to make any progress, according  to the ITAR-Tass news agency.
Eamon Hickey, the father of one of the  missing men, said he heard the news and was hoping it would not be  confirmed.
``There is so much rumor and counter-rumor coming from  out there that we don't know what to think.
Obviously we are hoping  and praying that it does not turn out to be true,'' he said at his  home in England.
Chechen authorities had been searching for the missing  men for the past two months.
British officials said they had not received  any ransom demand for the missing men.
Maskhadov said the deaths of  the four men were a major blow to Chechnya and its efforts to gain  international recognition of its independence.
He blamed the rash  of abductions in Chechnya to unidentified ``outside forces'' and their  Chechen henchmen.
``I am ready to answer before my people and the  whole world for what happened,'' he was quoted as saying by the Interfax  news agency.
Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common  in Chechnya since the end of the breakaway republic's two-year war  for independence from Russia in 1996.
But victims are rarely killed.
Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in the  North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of foreigners, and  90 of them released, officials have said.
The European Union Wednesday condemned the slaying of four foreign  hostages in Chechnya and said it would raise the issue with Russia's  foreign minister.
In a statement, EU Foreign Affairs Commissioner  Hans van den Broek ``condemned in the strongest terms the senseless  killing of the four hostages.''
Van den Broek said the EU was determined  to see remaining hostages in Chechnya released unharmed.
He planned  to discuss the killings with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov,  who is in Brussels for talks at NATO.
The severed heads of the hostages  were found Tuesday.
The men,  who were working to restore phone services in the breakaway Russian  republic, had been abducted by gunmen in October.
Chechen police were searching Wednesday for the bodies of four kidnapped  foreigners who were beheaded during a botched attempt to free them.
and the ostentatious display of the heads by killers  _ prompted neighboring Russian regions to close off roads into Chechnya,  and caused an outpouring of outrage and lament from Russian and foreign  officials.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said Wednesday that one  alleged kidnapper had been arrested and authorities gleaned enough  information to launch a rescue operation for the hostages, three Britons  and a New Zealander.
But during the rescue attempt the kidnappers  panicked and decapitated the captives, Maskhadov said, according to  Russian media reports.
``A concrete criminal group was identified,  an organizer of the abductions was arrested and an approximate location  of the hostages was determined,'' Maskhadov said in a statement.
The  severed heads of the four men were found lined up along a highway  Tuesday outside Chechnya's capital Grozny, and hundreds of Chechen  law enforcement officers were searching for the bodies Wednesday.
``We will take all necessary steps to solve this horrible crime,''  said Maskhadov, who has been unable to restore law and order in Chechnya  since being elected last year.
The victims _ Britons Peter Kennedy,  Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw  _ were identified by their former bodyguard.
They had been abducted  by unidentified gunmen Oct. 3 in Grozny.
``He was just making a career  for himself,'' Hickey's sister Deborah, 21, said Wednesday, fighting  back tears.
``He was fantastic with electrics and all that sort of  stuff.''
The family had expected 26-year-old Hickey to be back at  his parents' pub in Thames Ditton, England, by Christmas.
``Everything  was going right, everyone was very optimistic'' that the hostages  would be rescued, she told Britain's ITV.
``The people that have done  this to him, they deserve exactly the same back.''
The men, pickup  9th pvs
Chechen police were searching Wednesday for the bodies of four kidnapped  foreigners who were beheaded during a botched attempt to free them.
and the ostentatious display of the heads by killers  _ prompted neighboring Russian regions to close off roads into Chechnya,  and caused an outpouring of outrage and lament from Russian and foreign  officials.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said Wednesday that one  alleged kidnapper had been arrested and authorities gleaned enough  information to launch a rescue operation for the hostages, three Britons  and a New Zealander.
But during the rescue attempt the kidnappers  panicked and decapitated the captives, Maskhadov said, according to  Russian media reports.
``A concrete criminal group was identified,  an organizer of the abductions was arrested and an approximate location  of the hostages was determined,'' Maskhadov said in a statement.
The  severed heads of the four men were found lined up along a highway  Tuesday outside Chechnya's capital Grozny, and hundreds of Chechen  law enforcement officers were searching for the bodies Wednesday.
``We will take all necessary steps to solve this horrible crime,''  said Maskhadov, who has been unable to restore law and order in Chechnya  since being elected last year.
The victims _ Britons Peter Kennedy,  Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw  _ were identified by their former bodyguard.
They had been abducted  by unidentified gunmen Oct. 3 in Grozny.
``He was just making a career  for himself,'' Hickey's sister Deborah, 21, said Wednesday, fighting  back tears.
``He was fantastic with electrics and all that sort of  stuff.''
The family had expected 26-year-old Hickey to be back at  his parents' pub in Thames Ditton, England, by Christmas.
``Everything  was going right, everyone was very optimistic'' that the hostages  would be rescued, she told Britain's ITV.
``The people that have done  this to him, they deserve exactly the same back.''
The men, pickup  9th pvs
One of four foreigners beheaded by kidnappers in Chechnya claimed  in a videotape shown today that he and his fellow hostages were British  spies.
The tape was played by Chechen Vice President Vakha Arsanov  at a news conference in Grozny.
He refused to answer questions about  it, including where or when it was filmed and how or why the government  had it.
The four men, all wearing heavy beards, looked haggard.
One,  Peter Kennedy, claimed they had been sent to Chechnya by the British  secret service to monitor telephone conversations.
Their mission was  to gather information to stop the spread of Islamic extremism in the  region, he said in Russian.
It was not known whether he was speaking  under duress.
The severed heads of the four hostages were found lined  up Tuesday along a highway outside Chechnya's capital, Grozny.
Chechen  security forces were still searching today for the bodies.
The government  has said it was trying to rescue the men at the time of their deaths,  which have outraged Britain and Russia.
But its possession of the  tape was likely to increase suspicions of a government link in the  frequent kidnappings in Chechnya since it won de facto independence  from Russia in a 1994-96 war.
Most hostages have been released unharmed,  though dozens remain in captivity.
Kennedy and his three colleagues  Darren Hickey and Rudolf Petschi of Britain and Stanley Shaw of  New Zealand _ were employees of Britain's Granger Telecom.
They were  reportedly setting up a mobile phone network in Chechnya when they  were abducted by unidentified gunmen Oct. 3 in Grozny.
In the tape,  Kennedy claimed they were using the equipment to monitor phone calls.
Asked about the spying allegation, British Ambassador to Russia Andrew  Wood said, ``We don't comment on these things in general but any reasonable  analysis would show we have no wish to spy on Chechen territory.''
Assailants have abducted Chechnya's top prosecutor, who was investigating  the killings of four kidnapped foreigners, officials said Friday.
Mansur Tagirov vanished Thursday evening while returning to Chechnya's  capital city Grozny from a small village nearby, news reports said.
Officials at the prosecutor's office said unidentified attackers seized  Tagirov, and authorities speculated it was the work of an armed band  seeking the release of one of its members from prison.
Tagirov was  investigating the deaths of four foreigners whose severed heads were  found Tuesday lined up by a roadside in the breakaway Russian republic.
Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey and Rudolf Petschi of Britain  and Stanley Shaw of New Zealand _ were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified  gunmen in Grozny.
It was not clear if there was any link between Tagirov's  abduction and his investigation into the killings of the four men.
Meanwhile, Chechen Deputy Prime Minister Turpal Atgeriyev said authorities  had arrested a man who confessed to kidnapping the four foreigners.
The suspect was identified as Apti Abitayev, the ITAR-Tass news agency  said.
Chechen security forces were searching Friday for additional  suspects as well as the bodies of the four foreigners.
Atgeriyev said  he did not place any value in a videotape that showed one of the four  victims saying he was spying for Britain.
``There are certain methods  that might force a person to confess to any crime,'' Atgeriyev said.
The videotape, shown Thursday by Chechnya's vice president, showed  hostage Peter Kennedy claiming that the four men had been sent to  Chechnya to listen in on phone conversations in the breakaway republic.
Chechen officials refused to answer any questions about the tape,  including where or when it was filmed and how the government got it.
It was not known if Kennedy spoke under duress.
Britain's Embassy  in Moscow was trying to obtain the tape, spokesman Michael Haddock  said Friday.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov will allow British  government agents to come to Chechnya to investigate the killing,  Atgeriyev said, according to the Interfax news agency.
Since Chechnya's  two-year independence war with Russia ended in 1996, feuding gangs  have waged bloody turf wars.
Hundreds of people have been kidnapped,  mostly for ransom.
Meanwhile, a Russian soldier taken hostage during  the war was released after a year of efforts to free him, ITAR-Tass  said Friday.
Alexei Novikov was seized in February 1996.
Only a handful  of soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.
The report  gave no details of his release.
A French United Nations official kidnapped in southern Russia more  than 10 months ago has been freed and was flown to Moscow Saturday,  news reports reported.
Vincent Cochetel, 37, who headed the regional  office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in North Ossetia,  was seized by three masked gunmen in the region's capital of Vladikavkaz  on Jan. 29.
According to the Interfax news agency, Cochetel was freed  early Saturday in an operation conducted by the Russian Interior Ministry  and the regional security forces of the north Caucasus.
He was flown  to Moscow and was waiting for a special plane to take him to Geneva,  Switzerland, NTV television news said.
It was unclear where Cochetel  was held, in the breakaway republic of Chechnya or in North Ossetia.
``He was liberated on the border,'' Alexander Dzasokhov, the president  of North Ossetia, told NTV.
French President Jacques Chirac spoke  to President Boris Yeltsin by telephone and thanked him for Russia's  part in freeing Cochetel, the Kremlin press service said.
His release  came four days after the severed heads of four foreign hostages were  found in Chechnya when a government rescue attempt apparently went  wrong.
Chechen security forces are still searching for the men's bodies.
Chechnya's top prosecutor, who was investigating the killings and  was apparently kidnapped Thursday, was also released Saturday, Interfax  said.
Mansur Tagirov vanished Thursday evening while returning to  Chechnya's capital city Grozny from a small village nearby, news reports  said.
Tagirov was investigating the deaths Britons Peter Kennedy,  Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and Stanley Shaw of New Zealand.
They had been abducted by unidentified gunmen Oct. 3 in Grozny.
Their  heads were found Tuesday on a highway about 40 kilometers (25 miles)  west of Grozny.
Since Chechnya's two-year war of independence against  Russia ended in 1996, hundreds of people have been kidnapped in the  breakaway republic and neighboring regions by armed gangs who are  mostly motivated by ransom.
Dozens of people are currently held captive.
A Russian soldier taken hostage during the war was released Friday  after a year of efforts to free him, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported.
Alexei Novikov had been seized in February 1996.
Only a handful of  soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.
A French United Nations official kidnapped in southern Russia more  than 10 months ago has been freed and was flown to Moscow Saturday,  news reports reported.
Vincent Cochetel, 37, who headed the regional  office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in North Ossetia,  was seized by three masked gunmen in the region's capital of Vladikavkaz  on Jan. 29.
According to the Interfax news agency, Cochetel was freed  early Saturday in an operation conducted by the Russian Interior Ministry  and the regional security forces of the north Caucasus.
He was flown  to Moscow and was waiting for a special plane to take him to Geneva,  Switzerland, NTV television news said.
It was unclear where Cochetel  was held, in the breakaway republic of Chechnya or in North Ossetia.
``He was liberated on the border,'' Alexander Dzasokhov, the president  of North Ossetia, told NTV.
French President Jacques Chirac spoke  to President Boris Yeltsin by telephone and thanked him for Russia's  part in freeing Cochetel, the Kremlin press service said.
His release  came four days after the severed heads of four foreign hostages were  found in Chechnya when a government rescue attempt apparently went  wrong.
Chechen security forces are still searching for the men's bodies.
Chechnya's top prosecutor, who was investigating the killings and  was apparently kidnapped Thursday, was also released Saturday, Interfax  said.
Mansur Tagirov vanished Thursday evening while returning to  Chechnya's capital city Grozny from a small village nearby, news reports  said.
Tagirov was investigating the deaths Britons Peter Kennedy,  Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and Stanley Shaw of New Zealand.
They had been abducted by unidentified gunmen Oct. 3 in Grozny.
Their  heads were found Tuesday on a highway about 40 kilometers (25 miles)  west of Grozny.
Since Chechnya's two-year war of independence against  Russia ended in 1996, hundreds of people have been kidnapped in the  breakaway republic and neighboring regions by armed gangs who are  mostly motivated by ransom.
Dozens of people are currently held captive.
A Russian soldier taken hostage during the war was released Friday  after a year of efforts to free him, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported.
Alexei Novikov had been seized in February 1996.
Only a handful of  soldiers kidnapped during the war are still in captivity.
A French United Nations official who was kidnapped in southern Russia  more than 10 months ago was set free Saturday and flown to U.N. headquarters  in Geneva.
Vincent Cochetel, 37, who headed the office of the U.N.  High Commissioner for Refugees in the North Ossetia region, was seized  by three masked gunmen in the regional capital Vladikavkaz on Jan.
29.
Cochetel was freed about two minutes into the predawn operation  on the border between the republics of Chechnya and Ingushetia, but  a longer firefight broke out between the kidnappers and Russian security  forces, the Interfax news agency said.
Cochetel was unharmed, but  he said three of the kidnappers had been killed.
In footage of the  operation broadcast by Russia's NTV television station, Cochetel was  shown lying face-down, hand-cuffed, behind a white van.
Russian security  officers in masks and camouflage stood over him protectively, then  dragged him away as gunfire erupted and bullets bounced off the van.
Two security officers were slightly injured during the operation,  Interior Ministry spokesman Alexander Mikhailov said, according to  the ITAR-Tass news agency.
No ransom was paid for Cochetel's release,  Mikhailov said.
Cochetel was flown aboard a chartered jet to Moscow,  where he was met by French Ambassador Hubert Colin de Verdiere and  U.N. officials.
He left Saturday evening for Geneva, where his family  and colleagues were awaiting him at U.N. headquarters, said Vera Sobolyeva,  UNHCR spokeswoman in Moscow.
Speaking briefly, 6th graf pvs
Liberal Russian lawmaker Galina Starovoitova was gunned down in St. Petersburg.
Her aide was seriously wounded.
She was a parliament member, aide to Yeltsin and Democratic Choice party leader.
She was to run for president in 2000.
She is the 1st woman politician killed since Stalin's time.
Her slaying may be a watershed event.
Yeltsin will run the investigation.
She was said to have had uncompromising dedication to democracy.
Police found some evidence, but after the aide regained consciousness and talked, several suspects were arrested in raids.
Hundreds mourned her.
She was honored as a martyr at her funeral and was to be buried alongside Russian heroes.
Galina Starovoitova, founder of Russia's democratic movement and outspoken reformist member of parliament's lower house, was murdered and her press aide injured.
She tried to run for president in 1996 but was barred on technicalities.
She planned to run again in 2000.
Her death appeared a contract killing.
She campaigned against corruption and had many enemies.
The hundreds of political killings in Russia are rarely prosecuted.
Other St. Petersburg figures attacked recently include a banker, finance official, and parliamentary aide.
Her killing brought outrage and wide mourning Yeltsin led the investigation.
She was buried among Russia's national heroes.
Galina Starovoitova, a liberal Russian lawmaker, doctor, mother, grandmother and Presidential hopeful, was mourned as a martyr and buried beside other heroes in St. Petersburg.
She had been shot four days earlier by two, still unknown, assailants.
Her press aide, also shot, was recovering under heavy guard.
The death looked like a contract killing, all too common now in Russia.
Yeltsin said he would lead the investigation.
Suspects were taken in, but none has been arrested.
A champion of democracy, her allies feared she had too many enemies, both Communists and gangsters, and blamed her foes in the Duma.
Her death brought outrage in Russia and the world.
Galina Starovoitova, a leader of the reformist Russian's Democratic Choice party and a member of the Duma, was killed and an aide, Ruslan Linkov, wounded in an attack in St. Petersburg.
Several suspects were arrested; however, the murder is still unsolved.
Ms. Starovoitova, a Yeltsin ally and a champion of democracy, had said that she would run for president in 2000.
The crime appears to have been a contract killing, the latest of many in St. Petersburg.
Anatoly Chubais and other supporters have charged the Communists were behind the attack, but without evidence.
Former Russian prime ministers as well as commoners attended Ms. Starovoitova's funeral.
A liberal lawmaker who planned to run for president in Russia's next  elections was killed Friday in St. Petersburg, a news report said.
Galina Starovoitova, a member of the lower house of Russia's parliament  from the reformist party Democratic Russia, was attacked in an apartment  building along with her aide, the Interfax news agency reported.
It  gave no other details.
Starovoitova tried to run for president in  the 1996 elections but her registration was turned down for technical  reasons.
She had said she would run again in 2000.
There have been  several attacks on prominent figures in St. Petersburg in recent months.
A liberal lawmaker who planned to run for president in Russia's next  elections was killed Friday in St. Petersburg, a news report said.
Galina Starovoitova, a member of the lower house of Russia's parliament  from the reformist party Democratic Russia, was attacked in an apartment  building along with her aide, Ruslan Linkov, the Interfax news agency  reported.
Linkov was seriously injured, it said.
The report gave no  other details.
A police spokesman in St. Petersburg would not comment  on the report.
Starovoitova, 52, tried to run for president in the  1996 elections but her registration was turned down for technical  reasons.
She had said she would run again in 2000.
She served as President  Boris Yeltsin's aide on ethnic issues and was on the human rights  committee of the USSR's Supreme Soviet.
Born in the Ural Mountains  city of Chelyabinsk, Starovoitova was trained as a psychologist and  later received a doctorate in history.
She was divorced and had one  son, according to Who's Who in Russia.
There have been several attacks  on prominent figures in St. Petersburg recently.
A finance official  was attacked earlier this week, a top banker was killed last week,  and an aide to Russia's parliament speaker was shot in the head last  month.
A liberal lawmaker who planned to run for president in Russia's next  elections was shot to death Friday in St. Petersburg, police said.
Galina Starovoitova, a member of the lower house of Russia's parliament  from the reformist party Democratic Russia, was attacked the entry  way of an apartment building, police said.
A neighbor found the body  in a pool of blood late Friday night and called an ambulance, they  said.
The Interfax news agency said her aide, Ruslan Linkov, was also  seriously injured.
Starovoitova, 52, tried to run for president in  the 1996 elections but her registration was turned down for technical  reasons.
She had said she would run again in 2000.
She served as President  Boris Yeltsin's aide on ethnic issues and was on the human rights  committee of the USSR's Supreme Soviet.
Born in the Ural Mountains  city of Chelyabinsk, Starovoitova was trained as a psychologist and  later received a doctorate in history.
She was divorced and had one  son, according to Who's Who in Russia.
There have been several attacks  on prominent figures in St. Petersburg recently.
A finance official  was attacked earlier this week, a top banker was killed last week,  and an aide to Russia's parliament speaker was shot in the head last  month.
A liberal lawmaker who planned to run for president in Russia's next  elections was shot to death Friday in St. Petersburg, police said.
Galina Starovoitova, a member of the lower house of Russia's parliament  from the reformist party Democratic Russia, was attacked the entry  way of an apartment building, police said.
A neighbor found the body  in a pool of blood late Friday night and called an ambulance, they  said.
The Interfax news agency said her aide, Ruslan Linkov, was also  seriously injured.
Starovoitova, 52, tried to run for president in  the 1996 elections but her registration was turned down for technical  reasons.
She had said she would run again in 2000.
She served as President  Boris Yeltsin's aide on ethnic issues and was on the human rights  committee of the USSR's Supreme Soviet.
Born in the Ural Mountains  city of Chelyabinsk, Starovoitova was trained as a psychologist and  later received a doctorate in history.
She was divorced and had one  son, according to Who's Who in Russia.
There have been several attacks  on prominent figures in St. Petersburg recently.
A finance official  was attacked earlier this week, a top banker was killed last week,  and an aide to Russia's parliament speaker was shot in the head last  month.
Hundreds of people gathered Saturday to mourn the shooting death of  one of Russia's most prominent women, a potential presidential candidate  whose killing was widely considered to be politically motivated.
President  Boris Yeltsin said he would personally assume control over the investigation  into the killing of Galina Starovoitova, who was gunned down Friday  night as she climbed the stairs to her apartment.
An aide was also  shot and critically wounded.
The shooting occurred in a building along  St. Petersburg's atmospheric Griboedova Canal, site of another notorious  the murder that was the central event in Fyodor Dostoevsky's  19th century masterpiece, ``Crime and Punishment.''
Like that fictional  crime, which shone a light on social ferment in the St. Petersburg  of its day, the death of Starovoitova was immediately seized upon  as a seminal event in the Russia of the late 1990s.
``It is one of  the black pages in our modern history,'' Vladimir Putin, director  of the Federal Security Service (FSB) told the Interfax news agency.
``It doesn't do much to improve our reputation, the reputation of  the country as a whole.''
Starovoitova, 52, was an outspoken deputy  in the lower house of parliament who inspired strong feelings from  both her friends and enemies.
A leader of the liberal Russia's Democratic  Choice party, she was planning to run for president in 2000.
Those  close to her speculated about who might have wanted her dead, with  some naming various prominent politicians as potential culprits.
``Whose  path did she cross?
The answer is simple: communists and gangsters,''  said former Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly Chubais.
``These are the  two kinds of people in whose way she was standing.''
Putin, whose  agency is in charge of the investigation, cautioned that there was  still no evidence that her death was a political assassination.
Interior  Minister Sergei Stepashin did not speculate about the motive for the  crime, but told reporters that it was being investigated under a criminal  code section that covers terrorism.
Arriving at the St. Petersburg  airport from Moscow, he said: ``I brought with me a team of experienced  investigators.
I think we will clear it up soon.''
Yeltsin sent a  telegram to Gennady Seleznyov, chairman of parliament's lower house,  the State Duma, promising that the ``contractors and executors of  the murder will be found and severely punished,'' The president also  sent a telegram to Starovoitova's family, in which he called her ``one  of the most vivid figures in Russian politics,'' who ``consistently  upheld the lofty ideals of freedom and democracy.''
More than 200  people gathered in St. Petersburg's Palace Square to remember Starovoitova.
People hugged quietly as they listened to speeches by her fellow politicians  and friends.
The small stage was adorned with red roses, yellow carnations  and photographs of the deputy with various people, including the late  Russian physicist and dissident, Andrei Sakharov.
``We are united  today by pain, which is bigger than politics,'' said Viktor Krivulin,  a poet and candidate for the regional legislature.
``Politics, as  I felt during the past night, has become the art of spitting on the  soul.''
Others at the gathering said they were sure that Starovoitova  was killed by those who disliked her outspoken views.
``She had too  many enemies,'' said Galina Markelova, an aide to the lawmaker.
She  said Starovoitova had received many threats in the past.
``It was  doubtless a political murder,'' added Vitaly Milonov, the chairman  of the Young Christian Democrats.
Police said two men followed Starovoitova  and her aide, Ruslan Linkov, 27, and shot them on the stairs of her  building Friday evening.
Linkov was shot twice.
He regained consciousness  after a five-hour operation at the Military Medical Academy, but remained  in critical condition in intensive care.
A pistol with a silencer  and and automatic rifle were found at the scene, ITAR-Tass said.
A  funeral is scheduled for Tuesday in the settlement of Gorelovo, near  St. Petersburg.
In modern Russia, the crime was so common as to be mundane.
Two thugs,  armed with machine pistols and silencers, stalked and killed a powerful  figure, then slipped away into the night.
Police vowed to catch them  and politicians expressed outrage.
Usually, that would be the end  of the story.
This time, though, the figure shot was one of the most  prominent and popular women in Russian politics, a prospective presidential  candidate with friends in the highest reaches of the Kremlin.
As outrage  mounted Sunday, it seemed clear that the killing of Galina Starovoitova  was not going to be treated as a routine crime, and some said it might  turn out to be a watershed event in Russian politics.
``This is impossible  to tolerate any longer,'' said Grigory Yavlinsky, the leader of Yabloko,  another reform-oriented party.
``We must stop feeling powerless before  the increasingly cheeky scum.
We cannot go on living as though everything  is running as usual.''
Starovoitova, a member of parliament and a  leader of the liberal Russia's Democratic Choice party, was walking  up the stairs of her apartment building in St. Petersburg with a young  police believe it was  a man and a woman _ appeared behind them and opened fire.
Starovoitova,  shot three times in the head, collapsed and died instantly, authorities  said.
The aide, 27-year-old Ruslan Linkov, was critically wounded,  but managed to telephone a news agency reporter before losing consciousness.
Police have recovered two guns, and are hoping that Linkov can provide  a description of the killers.
He had regained consciousness but still  could not speak Sunday.
Although it was still not clear who killed  Starovoitova or why, the killing had all the earmarkings of a contract  hit _ a remarkably common crime in post-Soviet Russia.
Most of the  killings involve business deals and the corruption that has swamped  the government and the economy.
Until now, the most notorious of the  killings was that of popular television host Vladislav Litsyev, who  was shot outside his Moscow home in 1995.
But there have been hundreds  of others.
St. Petersburg has been especially plagued.
Last year,  the city's deputy governor was gunned down on a central St. Petersburg  street.
In the past two months alone, hitmen have claimed the lives  of a legislative aide, a high-ranking city official and a prominent  banker.
So deeply has the toxin infected Russian society that President  Boris Yeltsin ordered an investigation last week into reports that  his Federal Security Service _ the domestic successor to the KGB _  had ordered the death of Boris Berezovsky, the nation's most prominent  businessman and the head of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
There is no indication that anyone attempted to carry out an assassination  of Berezovsky.
But Yeltsin's order was the equivalent of U.S. President  Bill Clinton ordering an investigation into whether the FBI was plotting  to kill Microsoft chairman Bill Gates.
Yet, as remarkable as that  news was, it has been vastly overshadowed by the death of Starovoitova.
Television news since her death has carried reports of little else.
Reaction has poured in from virtually every important figure in the  country, and from surrounding nations.
Yeltsin, calling her ``my comrade,''  declared that he would personally oversee the investigation into her  death.
There was, in much of the reaction to Starovoitova's death,  the sense that a line had been crossed.
Perhaps it was because she  was a woman, perhaps because she elicited impassioned support, or  perhaps because people are simply fed up.
But, in more characteristic  fashion, her death also led to a round of political finger-pointing.
Colleagues of Starovoitova declared _ without any apparent evidence  _ that her Communist foes in the Duma, the lower house of parliament,  were the most likely culprits in her death.
Historian Dmitry Likachyov,  one of the nation's most revered and trusted figures, said her killing  seemed to signal the ``outburst of a new Red Terror.''
By late Saturday,  the name-calling had gone so far that Interior Minister Sergei Stepashin  called a news conference to say there was no evidence that the Communist  speaker of the Duma, Gennady Seleznyov, was involved in the killing.
Seleznyov went on television to say he was saddened by her death.
``But,'' he added, ``I would not like the deputies who sat on the  same bench with Galina Starovoitova in the State Duma ... to turn  this into a political show.''
It is too early to know where the recriminations  and political maneuvering will lead.
For now, the only thing certain  is the Starovoitova has become the latest in a long line of Russian  martyrs.
A badly wounded aide to a murdered lawmaker regained consciousness  Monday and was talking to police, who later arrested several suspects  in raids around the city, officials said.
Galina Starovoitova, 52,  a leader of the liberal Russia's Democratic Choice party, was shot  dead by unidentified assailants on the stairs of her apartment building  in St. Petersburg on Friday night.
The killing of such a prominent  politician has caused an uproar in Russia and prompted calls from  all sides for a crackdown on the country's growing lawlessness.
Scores  of business leaders and others have been gunned down in recent years  in contract killings that are almost never solved.
The lawmaker's  aide, 27-year-old Ruslan Linkov, was in a ``clear'' mind Monday, testifying  to investigators, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported.
Special police  armed with assault rifles were standing guard at the door of his hospital  room.
Acting on information from the aide, police carried out raids  and rounded up several suspects, officials said.
There were no further  details.
Linkov was critically wounded in the head during the attack  and later rushed to a hospital where he underwent surgery during the   that Starovoitova's Communist foes in the Duma, the lower house of  parliament, were the most likely culprits.
Over the weekend, Interior  Minister Sergei Stepashin even had to call a news conference to say  there was no evidence that the Communist speaker of the Duma, Gennady  Seleznyov, was involved in the killing.
Seleznyov responded in kind  on Monday, suggesting that the ``extremists from democratic organizations''  might have staged the murder in order to win local elections set for  Dec. 6, the Interfax news agency reported.
The speaker also threatened  to file a libel suit against a St. Petersburg newspaper, which Starovoitova  edited.
The newspaper recently accused Seleznyov of setting up an  illegal fund to finance a presidential bid and other shady activities.
Seleznyov, who has said he might run for president in 2000, denied  the newspaper's allegations on Friday, calling them an ``outright  slander.''
Starovoitova's murder had all the traits of a contract  murder, an increasingly common crime in Russia.
Communist leader Gennady  Zyuganov on Monday used Starovoitova's killing as an occasion to lambast  the government for its inability to contain soaring crime.
``That's  a result of the (government's) catastrophic policy aimed at the destruction  of the state and the nation,'' he said.
Starovoitova, of the reformist  party Democratic Russia, tried to run for president in 1996 but her  registration was turned down for technical reasons.
She had said she  would run again in 2000.
She served as President Boris Yeltsin's aide  on ethnic issues in 1991-92 _ the only woman in his immediate circle  _ and later joined the Russian parliament as one of the most vocal  defenders of liberal reforms.
Yeltsin called Starovoitova a ``comrade''  and said he would personally monitor the investigation into her killing.
Starovoitova remarried earlier this year and had one son and a grandson.
She is scheduled to be buried on Tuesday at the Nikolskoye cemetery  in St. Petersburg.
A slain Russian lawmaker was honored Tuesday as a martyr to democratic  ideals in a stately funeral service in which anger mingled freely  with tears.
Afterward, Galina Starovoitova was to be buried alongside  some of Russia's greatest national heroes.
The stirring tribute to  Starovoitova, a feisty liberal whose killing remains a mystery, was  indicative of the depth of national feeling over her death.
``To stop  us, they want to scare us.
They will never succeed,'' former Deputy  Prime Minister Anatoly Chubais said at the funeral for Starovoitova.
``We will fulfill the goals she sacrificed her life for.''
Hundreds  of people, including many of the country's most prominent political  figures, packed the grand Marble Hall of St. Petersburg's Ethnography  Museum for the funeral.
An open casket, cloaked with black ribbons  and flanked by a military honor guard, stood at the head of the hall.
At the end of the service, mourners passed grimly past it as classical  music played.
Outside, several thousand more mourners stood in the  cold, waiting for the service to end so they could file in and pay  their respects.
``Ordinary people should honor her memory, and make  sure this never happens again,'' said one man, Vadim Olshevsky, the  manager of a construction company.
But, he added bitterly, ``There's  little hope of that in our country.''
Among speakers at the service  were former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Yuri Yarov, President  Boris Yeltsin's first deputy chief of staff, who represented the president  at the service.
Former Prime Minister Sergei Kiriyenko was also present.
Yeltsin, who has said he will personally oversee the investigation  into Starovoitova's killing, was in a Moscow hospital, recovering  from pneumonia.
``The shooting in St. Petersburg is a grim lesson  for the whole of Russia,'' Yarov said.
``Irrespective of real motives  for that murder, a crime of this magnitude is a political act, and  society should know all the truth about it.''
One national television  channel turned over its daylong programming to funeral coverage and  a memorial tribute.
Newspapers carried page after page of coverage  of her death.
Her political party, Russia's Democratic Choice, called  on all Russians to turn out their lights in her memory for three minutes  at 8 p.m. Tuesday.
Starovoitova was initially going to be buried in  a simple cemetery in the St. Petersburg suburb where her family lives.
But as outrage mounted over her killing, the government announced  that she would be interred in the Alexander Nevsky Monastery in the  city's center following the funeral at the Ethnography Museum.
Among  those buried at the Alexander Nevsky Monastery are the composers Peter  Tchaikovsky and Modest Mussorgsky and the author Fyodor Dostoevsky.
Starovoitova was shot to death Friday evening as she and an aide scaled  the stairs to her apartment in St. Petersburg.
The aide, 27-year-old  Ruslan Linkov, was seriously wounded, but has been able to provide  some description of the shooting to police.
Acting on his information,  investigators rounded up several suspects, officials said Monday.
But a detective later said that investigators had learned nothing  ``serious'' from Linkov, according to the Interfax news agency, and  there were no further details about whether the suspects were still  in custody.
Igor Kozhevnikov, head of investigations for the Interior  Ministry, told Interfax on Tuesday that he was confident the case  would be solved.
``It will take time,'' he said, but added that investigators  ``have tips, they have something to work on.''
Authorities are acting  on the assumption that Starovoitova's death was a contract hit, a  common event in post-Soviet Russia.
Russian politicians and newspapers  have speculated wildly about political motives for the killing, but  police have said they have no idea why someone would have wanted her  dead.
Police said someone fired shots at the apartment of a member  of the St. Petersburg legislature Monday night, Interfax said.
No  one was hurt.
It was not clear whether the shooting was related to  Starovoitova's death.
Mourners bearing flowers and candles gathered Sunday outside the house  on Griboyedova Canal where a Russian legislator, Galina Staravoitova,  was shot to death on Friday night.
A key witness, Ruslan Linkov, 27,  Mrs. Staravoitova's press aide, was reported to be regaining consciousness  in a heavily guarded hospital ward where he was taken with gunshot  wounds to the head and neck.
The police say the two were attacked  in the stairwell of Mrs. Staravoitova's building by two assailants,  one of them a young woman.
The attackers reportedly fled through a  back entrance to a waiting car.
Two guns were found at the scene.
Friends and relatives say Mrs. Staravoitova, a founder of Russia's  democratic movement, had received death threats, but the motive for  the killing remains unclear.
``The choice of the target suggests a  well-thought out plan,'' said Sergei Kozyrev, vice president of the  Russian Association of Scientific Societies and a Staravoitova supporter.
that has not happened in  Russia since Stalin's time.''
Setting aside past feuds, local democratic  groups said Sunday that they would unite in coming elections to the  St. Petersburg city council, combining their forces against what they  say are criminals who have invaded local politics.
At a gathering  Sunday night in Moscow, Yegor Gaidar, a former Russian prime minister  and a close ally of Mrs. Staravoitova, bitterly rejected suggestions  that Russia should adopt extraordinary security measures to stem the  rise in political crime.
The New York Times said in an editorial on Monday, Nov. 23: The Russian  reform movement has produced few leaders with an uncompromising dedication  to democracy.
Galina Starovoitova was one, and her murder in St. Petersburg  on Friday was a terrible loss for Russia.
In a bleak season of economic  collapse and political timidity, the killing can only heighten fears  that Russia is slipping into an ugly era of intolerance and political  violence.
Initial evidence suggests that the killing was a political  assassination.
Ms. Starovoitova was gunned down in the lobby of her  apartment building, shot three times in the head, typical of Russian  contract killings.
She was a member of the Russian parliament and  a recently declared candidate for governor of the region around St.  Petersburg.
In recent weeks she had spoken out forcefully against  political extremism, denounced the anti-Semitic statements of a Communist  parliamentarian and was campaigning aggressively against financial  corruption in the St. Petersburg municipal government.
Ms. Starovoitova's  activities were fully in character with a career built around principles  of liberty, tolerance and the rule of law.
She championed democracy  and human rights long before they became politically acceptable in  Moscow, and courageously stood by Boris Yeltsin and other reformers  as Russia struggled to find a new political course when the Soviet  Union disintegrated.
An ethnographer by training, Ms. Starovoitova  proved to be a skillful and effective politician.
She first gained  national attention a decade ago when she set aside her academic work  about the ethnic history of Leningrad and ran successfully for a seat  in the Soviet parliament from Armenia, a startling victory for a Russian.
She later represented St. Petersburg in the Russian legislature.
Ms.  Starovoitova was a woman of irrepressible energy and infectious enthusiasm.
But her good humor and quick smile belied a steely commitment to combat  the corruption and ethnic divisions that she correctly considered  to be the enemies of Russian democracy.
The least Yeltsin can do is  to hunt down her killers and bring them to trial.
That would be the  exception in a nation where political violence is rarely prosecuted.
Her countrymen can honor her memory by following her example.
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which was established to look into the human rights violations committed during the long struggle against white rule, released its final report.
In what has been described as one of the most complete reports of its kind, the commission blames most of the atrocities on the former South African government.
The ANC also came under fire for committing some atrocities during the struggle.
Nelson Mandella's ex-wife, Winnie could be prosecuted for the part she played in such violations.
Missing from the report was De Klerk, who threatened to sue if he was mentioned in connection with the atrocities.
South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission headed by Desmond Tutu proposes amnesty to heal the wounds of the apartheid era.
If those accused of atrocities confess, they will be given amnesty, if not, they will be prosecuted.
The Commission's report said most human rights violations were by the former state through security and law enforcement agencies.
The African National Congress, Inkatha Freedom Party, and Winnie Mandela's United Football Club also shared guilt.
Former president de Klerk, who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela, was not named as an accessory after the fact, since his threatened lawsuit would delay the report.
South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, appointed to reconcile the sides involved in the crimes of the apartheid era, is releasing its final 2.5- year report.
Its purpose is to identify those who committed gross violations of human rights.
The report is to lay most of the blame for the violations on the State, but the ANC also shares blame.
The program offers amnesty to the accused if they confess but execution if they refuse.
The process has angered many people of all walks of life.
De Klerk, Apartheid's last president, is not being implicated but he is suing to stop publication.
Criminal cases are nonetheless expected to go on for six years.
South Africa Truth and Reconciliation Commission's 3,500-page report on apartheid-era atrocities was issued on Oct 30.
This report was intended to clear the air, grant amnesty to those who confessed, and begin the healing process.
Those named for prosecution were warned before the release.
Ex-prime minister de Klerk's name was removed.
The ruling African National Congress remained.
While the white government bore the brunt of the blame, several black movements were included.
After the release many talked of a new amnesty period or a limited time to prosecute.
Prosecutions could take 6 years; diverting judges, threatening elections, and slowing recovery.
Torturers and bombers who carried out atrocities defending or fighting  apartheid need counseling to ensure they do not repeat their crimes,  an expert for South Africa's reconciliation body said Thursday.
Addressing  local and international experts, Charles Villa-Vicencio, research  head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, said ignoring the  psychological needs of those who carried out human rights abuses could  alienate a potentially dangerous sector of society.
``We must give  attention to the healing of perpetrators, not just for the sake of  perpetrators, but for the sake of the nation as a whole,'' he said.
The conference, organized by the Medical Research Council, is examining  mental health issues raised by the Truth Commission, which is charged  with probing crimes committed by all sides in the anti-apartheid struggle.
As the commission prepares to hand over its final report at the end  of the month, South Africans are examining its painful and traumatic  exploration of their bloody past.
With the power to grant amnesty  to many who tortured, bombed or maimed innocent civilians, the process  has at some stage angered people in nearly all walks of life.
Many  whites see the panel as favoring the black liberation movements, while  many blacks accuse it of being too soft on former state officials,  especially top ranking ministers.
However, Villa-Vicencio appealed  for tolerance in dealing with all those who have committed crimes,  saying that the potential for wrongdoing existed in everyone.
``We  all, the entire human race, carry with us the capacity for evil,''  he said.
Many of Thursday's speakers touched on the figure of police  death squad leader Eugene de Kock, who was given jail terms totaling  more than 200 years after a killing spree that costs dozens of lives.
De Kock has applied for amnesty for his crimes.
Dan Stein, a specialist  in neurobiology and stress disorders, said de Kock typified many killers  from all sides in the conflict by his sheer ``banality of evil''.
``Many people have found him in interviews to be an ordinary, even  likeable person,'' he said about the man whom subordinates dubbed  ``Prime Evil.''
Ginn Fourie, a physiotherapist whose student daughter  was gunned down by black activists in a 1993 attack on a Cape Town  bar, said it was necessary to help those whose circumstances compelled  them to do wrong.
Struggling to control her tears, Fourie told delegates  she had attended the amnesty hearings of her daughter's killers and  supported their successful bid to be freed from long jail sentences.
After describing how she hugged the three members of the black nationalist  Pan-Africanist Congress and urged them to seek counseling together  with their victims, Fourie earned a standing ovation from the 50-strong  audience.
``We must take the initiative in understanding others and  start the process of reconciliation and healing our broken land,''  she said, her voice shaking with emotion.
A panel probing apartheid-era abuses has accused the African National  Congress of human rights violations, including torture and bomb attacks,  the state broadcaster said Monday.
The ANC, which led the struggle  against white rule and now is in power, previously has acknowledged  it was told to expect implication in right violations.
The Truth and  Reconciliation Commission will release its final report on 2 1-2 years  of investigation on Thursday.
The report was expected to place overwhelming  blame for the era's abuses on white governments and their brutal security  services.
President Nelson Mandela's office received an advance copy  on Monday ahead of the handover ceremony, when retired Archbishop  Desmond Tutu, who chaired the comission, will present Mandela with  the report.
South African Broadcasting Corp. radio said it had been  leaked a ``preliminary document'' which condemns the ANC as politically  and morally responsible for gross human rights violations during and  after the fall of apartheid.
An ANC spokesman, Thabo Masebe, said  he believed the news report referred to a commission letter sent in  advance ``informing us of its intention to implicate the ANC in gross  human rights violations.''
Commission officials could not immediately  be reached for comment.
Justice Minister Dullah Omar told journalists  in Pretoria he had heard the news report, but would not comment.
Former  President F.W. de Klerk, meanwhile, plans to ask a court to prevent  the Truth Commission report from implicating him in covering up state-sponsored  terror.
``Obviously we will comply with the ruling of a court,'' Omar  said, but added he would ``regret'' any court-ordered delay.
The ANC  was nervous enough about the report to request a meeting with commissioners  earlier this month.
The panel refused, to avoid appearing embarrassed.
The party says the accusations against it likely would center on the  planting of land mines on border farms, abuses at its military camps  in Angola and bombings.
Omar said he expected the report's conclusions  to set off debate but added it would ``lay the basis for reconciliation.''
The institution exploring apartheid's horrors will issue a report  that finds the African National Congress shares blame for human rights  violations as it struggled to overcome white rule.
The 3,500-page  report by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission culminates more  than two years of nationwide hearings.
South African media released  preliminary findings on Monday, three days before its official release  on Thursday in Pretoria, the capital.
The release of the document  is a milestone in South Africa's transformation from white minority  rule to democracy.
The commission, which has the power to grant amnesty,  was tasked with promoting reconciliation by laying bare the what and  why of apartheid-era atrocities.
With the ANC now in power and facing  an election in mid-1999, a condemnation by the commission could prove  damaging both to its electoral chances and moral standing.
There has  been no doubt that the report's overwhelming blame would be laid on  white governments and their security forces during the years under  scrutiny, 1960-1994.
Indeed, news reports Monday said the Truth Commission  would declare apartheid a crime against humanity and acknowledge that  the ANC and the more radical Pan Africanist Congress were conducting  a legitimate struggle against the former apartheid state.
But in preliminary  findings sent to the parties last month, the commission also said  the two movements were ``morally and politically accountable'' for  gross rights violations, South African Press Association and South  African Broadcasting Corp. said.
The preliminary finding said that  despite ANC policy against killing civilians, the line between military  and civilian targets had been blurred, SAPA said.
It condemned the  planting of landmines in rural areas, the execution of enemy agents,  torture and mistreatment of ANC members in its exile camps and for  killing political opponents.
It said the party must accept responsibility  for the activities of ANC Women's League president Winnie Madikizela-Mandela,  Nelson Mandela's former wife, and her Mandela United Football Club,  accused of killings, torture and kidnappings.
The commission also  said the PAC was guilty of the deaths of civilians in its strategy  in 1993 to drive white farmers off their land so it could be reclaimed  by blacks.
Justice Minister Dullah Omar, meeting journalists in Pretoria,  would not comment on the news reports about condemnation of the ANC.
``I do expect various responses (to the report).
I do not expect everyone  to agree.
It will lead to healthy debate,'' he said.
He said that  if the commissioners recommends prosecutions against anyone for abuses,  it will be up to the national director of prosecutions to decide whether  to proceed.
The director is appointed by the government.
The commission's  work is designed ``to help us establish the rule of law in South Africa,  and to establish the principle of accountability,'' Omar said.
The  ANC already has prepared the ground for a negative finding, saying  weeks ago that the commission had warned that harsh judgments were  in the offing.
The ANC was nervous enough about the report to request  a meeting with commissioners earlier this month.
The panel refused,  to avoid appearing biased.
On Monday, it rejected ``with contempt''  suggestions ANC officials themselves had leaked the findings.
Constand  Viljoen, leader of the tiny right-wing Freedom Front, said the ANC  had done so to give the commission credibility by making it more even-handed.
Publicly, the party has long defended its actions as those committed  during a ``just war.''
F.W. de Klerk, the last apartheid-era president,  meanwhile, planned to ask a court to prevent the Truth Commission  report from implicating him in covering up state-sponsored terror.
``Obviously we will comply with the ruling of a court,'' Omar said,  but added he would ``regret'' any court-ordered delay.
A panel investigating apartheid-era atrocities said Wednesday it will  not implicate the last apartheid president, F.W. de Klerk, in human  rights abuses after he threatened a court challenge.
De Klerk said  he would sue to block the long-awaited final report of the Truth and  Reconciliation Commission, which was due for release Thursday.
The  man who helped negotiate the end of apartheid objected to a finding  by the commission that he was ``an accessory after the fact'' to bombings  in the 1980s of the headquarters of a church group and of a labor  federation.
Former Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the truth panel's chairman,  said the commission needed time to prepare to fight the legal challenge,  and would ``excise'' de Klerk's name from the report to avoid delaying  its release.
``It upsets me deeply,'' Tutu said.
``We have been scrupulously  fair to Mr. de Klerk and we reject the contention that we have been  engaged in a vendetta against him.
``But we must and will respect  the courts and his rights under the constitution.
We fought hard for  those rights and we can be proud in South Africa that Mr. de Klerk  now shares in them,'' he said in a statement.
``All we are doing is  postponing dealing with the matter,'' Tutu later told The Associated  Press.
``The name will eventually appear after all the hoo-ha has  died down.''
De Klerk, reached in London, said he could not comment  before speaking with his lawyers because the matter was in the courts.
The commission was charged with promoting reconciliation by laying  bare apartheid's horrors.
It has held hearings around the country  for more than two years, listening to victims and perpetrators seeking  amnesty.
The release of the 3,500-page report represents a milestone  for South Africa's transformation from white minority rule to democracy.
De Klerk's challenge was only part of the storm of criticism prompted  by leaks of the report.
The African National Congress, the liberation  movement that helped defeat apartheid and now runs the country, on  Tuesday angrily rejected a finding that it too was guilty of human  rights violations in its armed struggle.
The report will be a broad  and detailed summary of South Africa's human rights history, from  1960 to 1994, when all-race elections ended white minority rule.
It  will parcel out moral condemnations and recommend individual prosecutions.
Other threatened legal challenges have led to fewer individuals being  named as rights violators than planned, The Star of Johannesburg reported  Wednesday.
In commenting on the newspaper report, Tutu said that more  than 400 people had been notified they would be implicated to give  them a chance to respond.
Only 15 successfully argued themselves out  of the report, he said.
President Nelson Mandela acknowledged Saturday the African National  Congress violated human rights during apartheid, setting him at odds  with his deputy president over a report that has divided much of South  Africa.
The disagreement stems from Thursday's release of the report  by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission on horrors committed during  apartheid.
Rather than act as a salve and an aid to reconciliation,  the report has caused divisiveness, even among former comrades-in-arms  who fought apartheid.
As expected, the report called apartheid a ``crime  against humanity.''
But it also blamed the ANC for gross human rights  violations during its anti-apartheid struggle, saying the group tortured  suspected spies and dissidents and killed innocent civilians with  land mines and bombs.
Some suspected traitors were killed in the ANC's  who became ANC president last year and will  likely be elected South Africa's next president in 1999 when Mandela  retires _ took a hard line Saturday against the report, and indicated  all ANC members must do the same.
``No member, 5th graf, 1st Ld-Writethru
Criminal prosecutions for atrocities committed during the war against  white rule could drag on for at least six years, a top prosecutor  said Monday.
Key figures implicated in human rights abuses by the  Truth and Reconciliation Commission already are under investigation,  the official, Jan d'Oliveira, told reporters.
They include two unnamed  generals in the apartheid state's security apparatus, President Nelson  Mandela's ex-wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and officials of the African  National Congress, he said.
The remarks by d'Oliveira, who recently  was appointed a deputy national director of prosecutions, were the  clearest signal yet that criminal cases would be brought against figures  accused by the commission of gross human rights violations.
The commission  released its report Oct. 30.
It chronicles the human rights abuses  committed by apartheid governments and their operatives as well as  by the African National Congress and others fighting the racist system.
The issue of continuing prosecutions is significant.
Many feel that  dragging on criminal reckonings of the horrors of the apartheid era  will only prolong bitterness and delay reconciliation.
But supporters  of prosecution feel that denying justice to the victims is a worse  evil.
On a practical level, highly public prosecutions of ANC figures  could have an impact on national elections next year, when the party  will seek to consolidate its hold on power.
The panel's chairman,  Archbishop Desmond Tutu, has called for a two-year time limit on prosecutions;  d'Oliveira called the period ``wholly impractical.''
The prosecutor  did not name the other targets.
``We have always worked on the principle  of that we will prosecute the highest rank,'' he said.
The commission  has the ability to grant amnesty to those who admit their misdeeds  and are found to have acted with political motives.
The report said  individuals who have not sought amnesty should be prosecuted.
Madikizela-Mandela  has not sought amnesty.
The commission found her accountable for human  rights violations committed by her bodyguards, who the report said  killed and tortured suspected opponents.
Madikizela-Mandela was convicted  in 1991 of kidnapping and being an accessory to an assault on four  young men.
She was sentenced to six years in jail, but paid a dlrs  3,200 fine on appeal.
The ANC official was among the most prominent  anti-apartheid activists.
The two generals were implicated during  Truth Commission testimony.
Prosecutors are ready to move forward  pending the amnesty application of one.
Facing a court challenge, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission  said Wednesday that it would withhold, at least temporarily, the parts  of its final report that implicate South Africa's last apartheid-era  president, F.W. de Klerk, in illegal acts.
De Klerk, 62, who helped  negotiate the end of South Africa's white supremacist government and  shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with President Nelson Mandela for  that work, had objected to a finding by the commission that he was  ``an accessory after the fact'' in the bombings of the headquarters  of a church group and of a labor federation in the 1980s.
The chairman  of the 17-member panel, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, said that although  he took such action with ``great reluctance,'' the commission needed  time to prepare to fight the legal challenge.
He said it would take  de Klerk's name out of 3,500-page report to avoid delaying its release  Thursday.
``It upsets me deeply,'' he said in a statement.
``We have  been scrupulously fair to de Klerk, and we reject the contention that  we have been engaged in a vendetta against him.''
De Klerk's challenge  was only part of the storm of criticism prompted by leaks about the  report in the last few days.
Within hours of the commission decision  to withdraw its findings on de Klerk, it was facing the possibility  this time from the ruling African National Congress.
The ANC also wants to block the commission findings about its conduct  during the liberation struggle.
A spokesman for the party, Thabo Masebe,  said the party would seek an injunction in the morning before the  report is officially handed over to Mandela.
While the commission's  report is expected to lay overwhelming blame on the former white government  for atrocities, it has also found the ANC responsible for human-rights  violations, including the torture and killing of spying suspects,  bombings in civilian areas and the killing of political enemies, including  members of the rival Zulu-based Inkhata Freedom Party.
The decision  on de Klerk seems certain to damage the commission's credibility.
The panel, created as a way of putting South Africa's brutal past  to rest without the expense and political divisiveness of trials,  has caused controversy from the start.
It has held more than 160 hearings  throughout the country, listening to both victims and to perpetrators  seeking amnesty.
But many whites say the commission is on a witch  hunt aiming to humiliate former government officials and Afrikaners  in general.
De Klerk has once before forced the commission officials  to court and won an apology from them for calling him a liar.
Some  political analysts said Wednesday's events would only further the  belief that the panel lacks impartiality.
``The withdrawal of the  findings can't help but be seen as a lack of certainty on their side,''  said Sampie Terreblanche, an economist and political analyst at the  University of Stellenbosch, who has supported the commission.
``Whether  we like it or not, the whole report gets a knock from this.''
De Klerk's  spokesman, David Steward, said the former president ``was very confident''  that he would win when the case goes to trial in March.
``He is very  happy to be in the courts now rather than dealing with the Truth Commission,''  Steward said.
``The fact that they agreed to withdraw creates the  definite impression that they specifically concocted a case to involve  Mr. de Klerk in a negative finding.''
The ANC has accused the commission  of trying to ``criminalize'' the liberation struggle.
``Whatever the  efforts to besmirch our struggle by denouncing it as a gross violation  of human rights,'' the congress said in a statement.
``The ANC and  the millions of people who were part of this struggle will always  be proud of what they did to insure that, in the process of the destruction  of a vile system, they did not themselves resort to vile methods of  struggle on the basis that the means justified the end.''
There are  probably few subjects that get South Africans more excited than the  issue of the Truth Commission and whether it is a worthy cause or  a waste of money.
The events of the last few days have only added  to the debate.
For some, like Pal Martins, 34, a former member of  the ANC's armed wing, the fact all sides of the political spectrum  are in an uproar is a good thing.
``The mere fact that everyone is  complaining means that the Truth Commission has done its work,'' he  said.
But others say that too many questions are being raised about  the panel's competence.
``The whole affair is beyond the pale, a mockery  of justice,'' said Roboy Vonholdt, a 56-year-old sheep and ostrich  farmer who believes that the commission has been a theatrical act.
``We should all turn our backs on the past and move forward.
We need  them and they need us.
Let's all make money and let good economic  conditions prevail.''
The commission's report is supposed to be a  broad and detailed summary of South Africa's human rights history,  from 1960 to 1994, when elections open to all races ended white minority  rule.
It will parcel out moral condemnations and recommend individual  prosecutions.
While de Klerk was alone in court Wednesday challenging  the commission, Tutu said Wednesday that other threatened legal challenges  had led to fewer individuals being named as rights violators than  originally planned.
Tutu said that more than 400 people had been notified  that they would be implicated to give them a chance to respond.
Some  15 successfully argued themselves out of the report or could not be  reached and were therefore deleted from the report, he said.
The commission  is required by law to give advance notification to anyone it intends  to implicate in its report.
The commission had been expected to say  that although de Klerk did not order the bombings, he subsequently  came to know that former Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Police  Commissioner Johan van der Merwe had been involved, but failed to  report his knowledge to the police.
This could open him up to a criminal  prosecution.
De Klerk has not applied for amnesty in this matter or  any other.
de Klerk has said that when he learned about the bombings,  Vlok and Van der Merwe were already in the process of applying for  amnesty, and he did not think it was necessary to report the matter.
Following are excerpts from the final report issued by South Africa's  Truth and Reconciliation Commission on Thursday: PRIMARY FINDING On  the basis of the evidence available to it, the primary finding of  the Commission is that: The predominant portion of gross violations  of human rights was committed by the former state through its security  and law-enforcement agencies.
Moreover, the South African state in  the period from the late 1970's to early 1990's became involved in  activities of a criminal nature when, amongst other things, it knowingly  planned, undertook, condoned and covered up the commission of unlawful  acts, including the extrajudicial killing of political opponents and  others, inside and outside South Africa.
In pursuit of these unlawful  activities, the state acted in collusion with certain other political  groupings, most notably the Inkatha Freedom Party (I.F.P.). . . .
Certain members of the State Security Council (the state President,  Minister of Defense, Minister of Law and Order, and heads of security  forces) did foresee that the use of words such as ``take out,'' ``wipe  out,'' ``eradicate,'' and ``eliminate'' would result in the killing  of political opponents.
They are therefore responsible for deliberate  planning which caused gross violations of human rights.
P.W. BOTHA  During the period that he presided as head of state (1978-1989) according  to submissions made to and findings made by the Commission, gross  violations of human rights and other unlawful acts were perpetrated  on a wide scale by members of the South African Defense Force, including:  The deliberate unlawful killing and attempted killing of persons opposed  to the policies of the Government, within and outside South Africa.
The widespread use of torture and other forms of severe ill treatment  against such persons.
The forcible abduction of such persons where  were resident in neighboring countries.
Covert logistical and financial  assistance to organizations opposed to the ideology of the A.N.C.  and other liberation movements. . . .
INKATHA The Commission finds  that in 1986, the South African Defense Forces (S.A.D.F.) conspired  with Inkatha to provide the latter with a covert, offensive paramilitary  unit (or ``hit squad'') to be deployed illegally against persons and  organizations perceived to be opposed to both the South African Government  and Inkatha.
The S.A.D.F. provided training, financial and logistical  management and behind the scenes supervision of the trainees, who  were trained by the Special Forces unit of the S.A.D.F. in the Caprivi  Strip.
The Commission finds furthermore that the deployment of the  paramilitary unit in KwaZulu led to gross violations of human rights,  including killing, attempted killing and severe ill treatment.
The  Commission finds the following people, among others, accountable for  such violations: Mr. P. W. Botha, Gen. Magnus Malan, Chief Mangosuthu  Buthelezi. . . .
The A.N.C.
While it was A.N.C. policy that the loss  of civilian life should be ``avoided,'' there were instances where  members of its security forces perpetrated gross violations of human  rights in that the distinction between military and civilian targets  was blurred in certain armed actions, such as the 1983 Church Street  bombing of the South African Air Force headquarters. . . .
In the  course of the armed struggle, the A.N.C., through its security forces,  undertook military operations which, though intended for military  or security force targets, sometimes went awry for a variety of reasons,  including poor intelligence and reconnaissance.
The consequences in  these cases, such as the Magoo's Bar and Durban Esplanade bombings,  were gross violations of human rights in respect of the injuries to  and loss of lives of civilians.
Individuals who defected to the state  and became informers and/or members who became state witnesses in  political trials . . . were often labeled by the A.N.C. as collaborators  and regarded as legitimate targets to be killed.
The commission does  not condone the legitimization of such individuals as military targets  and finds that the extrajudicial killings of such individuals constituted  gross violations of human rights.
The commission finds that, in the  1980's in particular, a number of gross violations were perpetrated  not by direct members of the A.N.C. or those operating under its formal  command, but by civilians who saw themselves as A.N.C. supporters.
In this regard, the Commission finds that the A.N.C. is morally and  politically accountable for creating a climate in which such supporters  believed their actions to be legitimate and carried out within the  broad parameters of a ``people's war'' as enunciated by the A.N.C.  A.N.C. CAMPS The Commission finds that suspected ``agents'' were routinely  subjected to torture and other forms of severe ill treatment and that  there were cases of such individuals being charged and convicted by  tribunals without proper regard to due process, sentenced to death  and executed.
WINNIE MADIKIZELA-MANDELA The Commission finds that  Ms. Madikizela-Mandela was central to the establishment and formation  of the Mandela United Football Club, which later developed into a  private vigilante unit.
It is the Commission's view that Ms. Madikizela-Mandela  was aware of the criminal activity and the disquiet it caused in the  community, but chose deliberately not to address the problems emanating  from the football club.
The Commission finds that those who opposed  Ms. Madikizela-Mandela and the Mandela United Football Club, or dissented  from them, were branded as informers and killed.
The Commission finds  that Ms. Madikizela-Mandela . . . is accountable, politically and  morally for the gross violations of human rights committed by the  Mandela United Football Club.
The Commission finds further that Mrs.  Madikizela-Mandela herself was responsible for committing such gross  violations of human rights. . . .
BUSINESS Business was central to  the economy that sustained the South African state during the apartheid  years.
Certain businesses, especially the mining industry, were involved  in helping design and implement apartheid policies.
The white agriculture  industry benefited from its privileged access to land.
The New York Times said in an editorial on Sunday, Nov. 1: The 3,500-page  report of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, released  on Thursday, is the most comprehensive and unsparing examination of  a nation's ugly past that any such commission has yet produced.
Drawing  from the commission's own investigations and the testimony of hundreds  of applicants for amnesty and 20,000 victims, the report is a detailed  look at the crimes of the apartheid era, and blames successive white  governments for the vast majority.
It has fulfilled its mandate of  telling the fullest truth possible, which is one reason that every  political party in South Africa has denounced it.
Besides accusing  the government of assassinations and bombings, the report criticizes  the Inkatha Freedom Party for its massacres and collaboration with  security forces, and blames the African National Congress for the  murder of civilians and other crimes.
It singles out former President  P.W. Botha, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the Inkatha leader, and Winnie  Mandela, among others, for detailed treatment of their roles in political  crimes.
One major flaw in the report is the absence of a section accusing  F.W. de Klerk, the last apartheid president, of knowing about several  bombings after the fact and keeping silent.
It was excised because  de Klerk is suing the commission.
The ANC also sued, unsuccessfully,  to stop publication.
The lawsuits are a disappointing sign that South  Africa's political parties are not interested in an honest look at  their past, nor in the free flow of information.
The controversy has  added to widespread complaints that the commission has not helped  the process of reconciliation.
This is wrong.
True reconciliation  which occurs when a society is no longer paralyzed by the past and  people can work and live together _ cannot be based on silence.
No  society can be restored to health by papering over as much pain as  South Africans have suffered.
A noisy and informed debate about complicity  in the crimes of the apartheid era is necessary, if uncomfortable.
The report is only part of the Truth Commission's contribution to  the healing process.
The hearings themselves, which allowed victims  of human rights violations to tell their stories in public, helped  the country heal and opened the eyes of many whites to the unpleasant  truth about apartheid.
The amnesty process, while permitting many  important criminals to escape justice, is allowing families to know  exactly what happened to their loved ones in dozens of cases that  would likely have never gone to trial in South Africa's fragile judicial  system.
The process of helping the victims with scholarships and other  necessary aid goes on, although it will not be enough.
No commission  can transform a society as twisted as South Africa's was.
But the  Truth Commission is the best effort the world has seen, and South  Africa is the better for it.
The deal that South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission offered  was simple enough: Confess your crimes, apply for amnesty and you  will go free.
If you don't come forward, you will be prosecuted.
After  more than two years of hearings into apartheid-era atrocities, the  commission last week unveiled a 3,500-page report naming dozens of  people it believes were up to their elbows in the gore but never applied  for amnesty.
So the prosecutions should begin soon, right?
Not so  fast.
The study was barely in the hands of President Nelson Mandela  before talk of new amnesty deals had begun.
It seems that nearly all  including the ruling African  National Congress _ have key officials who could end up in the dock  because of the report.
Suddenly, there is lots of talk about how the  country can't withstand a round of politically divisive trials, and  many political analysts here are betting that an agreement ``of mutual  benefit'' is in the offing.
Already, three major political parties  are calling for some kind of new amnesty, and the ANC isn't closing  the door.
ANC spokesman Thabo Masebe said it was ``premature'' to  talk of a general amnesty, but he acknowledged that the party was  discussing an amnesty specifically tailored to violence by black South  Africans against other blacks that littered the KwaZulu/Natal province  with bodies during the late '80s and into the '90s.
In choosing a  truth commission rather than a Nuremberg-style trial with which to  close out its brutal past, South Africa hoped for an idealistic reconciliation.
People would come clean and receive true forgiveness.
Society would  then be able to move on, its wounds cleansed and healed.
It was a  model watched closely around the world by other societies wondering  how to disentangle themselves from the grudges of a brutal past.
But  given the chance, hundreds of South Africa's perpetrators did not  come forward.
Commission officials themselves say they were frustrated  by the lack of cooperation, however exhaustive their report may seem.
It is perhaps too late, however, to press for more.
Today's South  Africa has urgent new problems to deal with _ unemployment, crime,  white flight, too few schools and hospitals.
So it may wind up settling  for a more pragmatic reconciliation _ one that gives amnesty to the  unrepentant simply because it's more practical for all concerned to  move on.
In recent years, truth commissions have gained popularity  in many places, notably Chile, Argentina and El Salvador.
But South  Africa's _ the biggest and most powerful, able to grant amnesty and  to subpoena witnesses _ was supposed to be the real test.
Certainly  the commission forced the nation to see the gruesome details of its  past, as sobbing survivors and stone-faced torturers told of smashed  genitals and near suffocations.
And the commission's work added much  to the knowledge about what happened in South Africa between 1960  and 1994.
But it will be years before the effect of the commission  can truly be judged.
Has anyone really forgiven anyone else?
Will  vendettas persist?
No one can answer.
One thing seems clear, however:  Four years after South Africa held its first non-racial elections,  a growing number of South Africans want to be done with the past.
Raymond Louw, the publisher of a respected weekly newsletter, Southern  Africa Report, says a new amnesty proposal could come up during the  February session of Parliament, in time to remove the issue from next  year's election campaigns.
``You simply can't have this country torn  apart by prosecutions,'' he says.
``Everybody is going to be howling  for an amnesty.
They already are.''
Even as Archbishop Desmond Tutu,  the commission's chairman, delivered the report, he seemed to be anticipating  a push for a new amnesty and arguing against it.
He said such a move  would be highly unfair to those who came forward.
He suggested instead  that there be a two-year time limit, after which anyone not indicted  would in effect get amnesty.
To be sure, there will be opposition  to any proposals to limit prosecutions.
More than a dozen human rights  and victims advocacy groups have already banded together to condemn  such proposals as ``unconscionable.''
The idea for a Truth Commission  emerged as a compromise from the long negotiations that brought about  South Africa's peaceful transition from a white supremacist state  to a non-racial democracy.
During the talks, the white National Party  government pushed for a blanket amnesty, and the ANC refused.
In the  end, only about 250 former police officers came forward, most of them  foot soldiers.
And only two high National Party officials, former  Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Police Commissioner Johan  van der Merwe, confessed _ to roles in ordering bombings.
In its report,  the commission called the apartheid state the ``primary perpetrator''  of gross human rights violations and held such high ranking former  officials as former President P.W. Botha, his former army chief, Georg  Meiring, and the former intelligence chief, Niel Barnard, responsible.
These men, and others of lower rank, have not applied for amnesty  For the ANC, the most embarrassing prospect is the possible prosecution  of Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who is accused  in the report of taking part in a number of assaults and abductions.
Lesser-known officials could face charges too.
The ANC is held responsible  for at least 76 deaths in KwaZulu/Natal.
The ANC's problems are further  complicated by its efforts to make peace with the largely Zulu-based  Inkatha Freedom Party.
Virtually no one from that party came forward  to ask for amnesty.
Yet the report found that Inkatha, working with  the white government, was responsible for widespread slaughter in  KwaZulu/Natal and in the townships around Johannesburg.
Inkatha's  leader, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and many key party officials stand  accused of fomenting a wide range of abuses.
But prosecuting Chief  Buthelezi could lead to new warfare in KwaZulu.
Part of the reluctance  to go forward with prosecutions may be the result of still another  factor: The judicial system is already overwhelmed with rising crime  and the evidence from the apartheid era is old.
So why spend the time  and the money?
At the moment, only one political party is opposed  to any form of new amnesty _ the tiny but influential Democratic Party,  a liberal group that was not involved in the violence.
Its head, Tony  Leon, says a new amnesty would only prove that ``the more thuglike  your behavior, the more you get away with.''
But he concedes that  his is a lonely voice.
``At this point,'' he says, ``there is little  enthusiasm for anything but closing the book on the past.''
A passerby who found Matthew Shepard's nearly lifeless body tied to a fence outside Laramie, Wyoming at first thought it was a scarecrow.
Matthew, an openly gay student at the University of Wyoming, had been kidnapped, brutally beaten and left to die in near freezing temperatures.
Two men, Russell Henderson and Aaron McKinney were arrested on charges of kidnapping and attempted first degree murder.
Two women, friends of the accused, were charged as accessories after the fact.
Seeing this as a hate crime, gay-rights activists nationwide renewed efforts to get the Clinton Administration to pass hate-crime legislation.
A 22-year old gay University of Wyoming student was found beaten and left to die lashed to a fence.
Two men were arraigned on kidnapping, robbery, and attempted murder charges (changed to murder after Shepard died) and two females were charged as accessories.
Expressions of sympathy came from across the nation, including President Clinton and the crime was widely denounced.
The savage nature of the crime renewed calls for enactment of hate-crimes legislation.
The House passed a resolution calling the killing "outrageous".
On the day Shepard died, the Family Research Council co-hosted a press conference to demonize gay people.
Two men in Wyoming kidnapped, robbed, and brutally beat a gay university student who died in a coma five days after the assault.
The incident fanned public outrage.
Hundreds in Laramie and on campuses across the nation demonstrated support to the student with marches and candlelight vigils.
President Clinton responded to nationwide calls by urging Congress to pass the Federal Hate Crimes Protection Act.
Gay leaders stressed that hostility towards gays, based on several surveys, flourishes in high schools and universities.
By coincidence, on the day of the beating a religious right organization in Washington was announcing a barrage of TV ads aimed at gays.
1,000 people mourned Matthew Shepherd, the gay University of Wyoming student who was severely beaten and left to die tied to a fence.
The crime sparked nationwide vigils and prompted President Clinton to call for federal hate-crimes legislation.
In 19 states, including Colorado, sexual orientation is not included in hate-crime laws.
Wyoming is one of 10 states with no hate-crime laws at all, but the governor appealed to lawmakers to reconsider their opposition.
Christian conservatives argue that hate-crime laws restrict freedom of speech, while gay rights activists and others say these laws send a message that attacks on minorities will not be tolerated.
At first, the passing bicyclist thought the crumpled form lashed to  a ranch fence was a scarecrow.
But when he stopped, he found the burned,  battered and nearly lifeless body of Matthew Shepard, an openly gay  college student who had been tied to the fence 18 hours earlier.
On  Friday, the 22-year-old University of Wyoming student was in a coma  in critical condition.
At Albany County courthouse here, Russell Henderson,  21, and Aaron McKinney, 22, were arraigned on charges of kidnapping,  aggravated robbery and attempted first-degree murder.
Two women described  as friends of the men, Kristen Leann Price, 18, and Chastity Vera  Pasley, 20, have been charged as accessories after the fact to attempted  first-degree murder.
Shepard's friends said that he did not know his  alleged tormentors.
Laramie police say the primary motive was robbery,  although court papers filed Friday indicate Shepard's homosexuality  may also have been a factor.
Shepard's friends call the attack a hate  crime.
``He was very open about his sexuality,'' Tina LaBrie, an anthropology  student here, said of her friend.
``I admired him for that because  it is very courageous to be yourself even when others disagree.''
A few hours before he was beaten, Shepard, a slight 5-foot, 2-inch  man who wore braces on his teeth, had attended a meeting of the Lesbian,  Gay, Bisexual, Transgendered Association, said Walter Boulden, a friend  of Shepard's.
``He was sitting at the bar, having a beer, when two  men came up and talked to him,'' Boulden, a 46-year-old university  lecturer of social work here, said today between tears.
``He indicated  he was gay, and they said they were gay, too.''
``Now, he is in a  coma,'' continued Boulden, who visited his friend at a hospital in  Fort Collins, Colo., on Thursday.
``I don't think anybody expects  him to pull through.''
Shepard, who spoke Arabic and German, studied  at a boarding school in Switzerland before moving back to the United  States to attend the University of Wyoming, the alma mater of his  father, an oil rig safety inspector in Saudi Arabia.
Matthew Shepard  was born in Casper, the capital of Wyoming's oil belt, and spent much  of his youth there.
But six weeks after returning to Wyoming and enrolling  as a freshman here, Shepard fell into a depression, said Ms. Labrie  and her husband, Phillip.
Accustomed to life in Europe and Denver,  this foreign language student who wanted to become a diplomat found  himself living in this isolated city of 27,000 people.
Set in a treeless  landscape defined by barbed wire fences, grazing cattle and a busy  freight railroad line, Laramie is a town where pickup trucks outnumber  sport utility vehicles, where fall entertainment revolves around this  Saturday's homecoming football game and the start of the hunting season  in the nearby Medicine Bow mountains.
Although Wyoming often bills  itself as the ``equality state,'' in reference to its being the first  state to give women the vote, the state legislature has repeatedly  voted down hate crime legislation on the grounds that it would give  homosexuals special rights.
``Wyoming is not really gay friendly,''  Marv Johnson, executive director of the Wyoming chapter of the American  Civil Liberties Union, said from Cheyenne.
``The best way to characterize  that is by a comment a legislator made a few years back, when he likened  homosexuals to gay bulls as worthless and should be sent to the packing  plant.''
Shepard joined the campus gay association at the university  within days.
One of his favorite haunts was the Fireside Bar, which  drew a mixed crowd of college students and rodeo cowboys, gays and  straights.
``He definitely wasn't drunk when he came in,'' recalled  the bartender, Matt Galloway.
``He wasn't drunk when he went out.''
Calvin Rerucha, the county attorney, charged in court documents today  that McKinney and Henderson posed as homosexuals and lured Shepard  out to McKinney's pickup truck.
Beating him inside the truck, the  pair drove him one mile southeast to an isolated part of a new rural  subdivision, the County Attorney's report charged.
There, it said,  the men tied their captive to a post-and-rail fence and pistol-whipped  him with a .357 magnum ``while he begged for his life.''
Relatives  said that Shepard also suffered burns on his body.
After nearly beating  the young man to death, Laramie Police Commander David O'Malley said,  the assailants stole his wallet and shoes and left him tied to the  fence.
The police commander said that when his officers arrested the  two men on Thursday, they found in McKinney's pickup truck a .357  magnum pistol covered with blood and Shepard's shoes and credit card.
He said they found Shepard's wallet at McKinney's home.
The police  commander said that the two women helped the two men dump their bloody  clothing, and that they reported hearing the men make anti-gay remarks.
Ms. Pasley, a freshman art student at the university, lived with Henderson.
Ms. Price lived with McKinney.
The police did not say what the other  three did for a living.
On Friday, friends and Laramie residents struggled  to understand the incident.
Shepard, some said, may have felt a false  sense of confidence because the local Gay Association completed plans  on Tuesday night for ``Gay Awareness Week 1998.''
The weeklong series  of events starts here Sunday with a local observance of ``National  Coming Out Day'' and a lecture on Monday by Leslea Newman, the author  of ``Heather Has Two Mommies,'' a book about lesbian families.
``If  I were a homosexual in Laramie, I would hang low, very low,'' said  Carla Brown, manager of the Fireside.
``Openly gay behavior is not  only discouraged, it's dangerous.''
At first, the passing bicyclist thought the crumpled form lashed to  a ranch fence was a scarecrow.
But when he stopped, he found the burned,  battered and nearly lifeless body of Matthew Shepard, an openly gay  college student who had been tied to the fence 18 hours earlier.
On  Friday, the 22-year-old University of Wyoming student was in a coma  in critical condition.
At Albany County courthouse here, Russell Henderson,  21, and Aaron McKinney, 22, were arraigned on charges of kidnapping,  aggravated robbery and attempted first-degree murder.
Two women described  as friends of the men, Kristen Leann Price, 18, and Chastity Vera  Pasley, 20, have been charged as accessories after the fact to attempted  first-degree murder.
Shepard's friends said that he did not know his  alleged tormentors.
Laramie police say the primary motive was robbery,  although court papers filed Friday indicate Shepard's homosexuality  may also have been a factor.
Shepard's friends call the attack a hate  crime.
``He was very open about his sexuality,'' Tina LaBrie, an anthropology  student here, said of her friend.
``I admired him for that because  it is very courageous to be yourself even when others disagree.''
A few hours before he was beaten, Shepard, a slight 5-foot, 2-inch  man who wore braces on his teeth, had attended a meeting of the Lesbian,  Gay, Bisexual, Transgendered Association, said Walter Boulden, a friend  of Shepard's.
``He was sitting at the bar, having a beer, when two  men came up and talked to him,'' Boulden, a 46-year-old university  lecturer of social work here, said today between tears.
``He indicated  he was gay, and they said they were gay, too.''
``Now, he is in a  coma,'' continued Boulden, who visited his friend at a hospital in  Fort Collins, Colo., on Thursday.
``I don't think anybody expects  him to pull through.''
Shepard, who spoke Arabic and German, studied  at a boarding school in Switzerland before moving back to the United  States to attend the University of Wyoming, the alma mater of his  father, an oil rig safety inspector in Saudi Arabia.
Matthew Shepard  was born in Casper, the capital of Wyoming's oil belt, and spent much  of his youth there.
But six weeks after returning to Wyoming and enrolling  as a freshman here, Shepard fell into a depression, said Ms. Labrie  and her husband, Phillip.
Accustomed to life in Europe and Denver,  this foreign language student who wanted to become a diplomat found  himself living in this isolated city of 27,000 people.
Set in a treeless  landscape defined by barbed wire fences, grazing cattle and a busy  freight railroad line, Laramie is a town where pickup trucks outnumber  sport utility vehicles, where fall entertainment revolves around this  Saturday's homecoming football game and the start of the hunting season  in the nearby Medicine Bow mountains.
Although Wyoming often bills  itself as the ``equality state,'' in reference to its being the first  state to give women the vote, the state legislature has repeatedly  voted down hate crime legislation on the grounds that it would give  homosexuals special rights.
``Wyoming is not really gay friendly,''  Marv Johnson, executive director of the Wyoming chapter of the American  Civil Liberties Union, said from Cheyenne.
``The best way to characterize  that is by a comment a legislator made a few years back, when he likened  homosexuals to gay bulls as worthless and should be sent to the packing  plant.''
Shepard joined the campus gay association at the university  within days.
One of his favorite haunts was the Fireside Bar, which  drew a mixed crowd of college students and rodeo cowboys, gays and  straights.
``He definitely wasn't drunk when he came in,'' recalled  the bartender, Matt Galloway.
``He wasn't drunk when he went out.''
Calvin Rerucha, the county attorney, charged in court documents today  that McKinney and Henderson posed as homosexuals and lured Shepard  out to McKinney's pickup truck just after midnight early Wednesday.
Beating him inside the truck, the pair drove him one mile southeast  to an isolated part of a new rural subdivision, the County Attorney's  report charged.
There, it said, the men tied their captive to a post-and-rail  fence and pistol-whipped him with a .357 magnum ``while he begged  for his life.''
Relatives said that Shepard also suffered burns on  his body.
After nearly beating the young man to death, Laramie Police  Commander David O'Malley said, the assailants stole his wallet and  shoes and left him tied to the fence.
The police commander said that  when his officers arrested the two men on Thursday, they found in  McKinney's pickup truck a .357 magnum pistol covered with blood and  Shepard's shoes and credit card.
He said they found Shepard's wallet  at McKinney's home.
The police commander said that the two women helped  the two men dump their bloody clothing, and that they reported hearing  the men make anti-gay remarks.
Ms. Pasley, a freshman art student  at the university, lived with Henderson.
Ms. Price lived with McKinney.
The police did not say what the other three did for a living.
On Friday,  friends and Laramie residents struggled to understand the incident.
Shepard, some said, may have felt a false sense of confidence because  the local Gay Association completed plans on Tuesday night for ``Gay  Awareness Week 1998.''
The weeklong series of events starts here Sunday  with a local observance of ``National Coming Out Day'' and a lecture  on Monday by Leslea Newman, the author of ``Heather Has Two Mommies,''  a book about lesbian families.
``If I were a homosexual in Laramie,  I would hang low, very low,'' said Carla Brown, manager of the Fireside.
``Openly gay behavior is not only discouraged, it's dangerous.''
As a gay college student lay hospitalized in critical condition after  a severe beating here, this small city, which bills itself as ``Wyoming's  hometown,'' wrestled with its attitudes towards gay men.
On Saturday,  at the University of Wyoming's annual homecoming parade, ``Pistol  Pete'' and his uniformed brass band were overshadowed by a larger  450 people, many wearing yellow armbands and carrying  signs in support of the 21-year-old student, Matthew Shepard, who  suffered severe head injuries in the attack last week.
``Hate is not  a Small Town Value _ No to Violence and Evil,'' read one sign, as  watchers applauded.
With passersby spontaneously joining the protest  group, two women held another sign that read, ``No Hate Crimes in  Wyoming.''
Two candlelight vigils were held Sunday night at churches  near the campus.
At the Poudre Valley Hospital in Fort Collins, Colo.,  where Shepard's health continued to deteriorate, the hospital has  received so many flowers that nurses have started to distribute bouquets  to other patients.
A vigil at the hospital on Saturday evening drew  about 500 people.
``We live in the Equality State,'' Shannon Rexroat  wrote Friday in a special edition of the Branding Iron, the campus  newspaper.
Referring to Wyoming's pioneer heritage as the first state  to grant women the right to vote, Ms. Rexroat, the campus newspaper's  editor added: ``That means nothing to me anymore.
We live in a state  where a young man was brutally beaten because he is gay.''
But others  recalled another side of ``Wyoming's hometown,''which has a population  of more than 26,000.
Jamie Lewis, another editor, said that on Friday  he was handing out copies of the special edition when a passerby backed  away from him and used an anti-gay epithet.
Last week's brutal assault  bubbled out of an ongoing climate of hostility toward gay men and  lesbians, leaders of the local Unitarian church said in a letter published  Sunday in the city's newspaper, The Laramie Daily Boomerang.
``This  incident was atypical in its brutality, but not in its underlying  motive,'' wrote Jeffrey Lockwood and Stephen Johnson.
Gay people in  Laramie, they wrote, ``are frequently assaulted with derision, intolerance,  insult and hostility _ if not guns and ropes.''
Ric Turley, who dropped  out of college here after one year in the 1970s, recalled driving  here to see his family for Christmas in 1993 and seeing a vandalized  billboard on the main highway.
Under a brace of pistols, an advertising  appeal for a state history museum had been changed, he said, from  ``Shoot a Day or Two,'' to ``Shoot a Gay or Two.''
Turley, who is  gay and said he only came out after he had left Wyoming, said that  he immediately complained to the museum.
But returning a month later,  he found the message had not been erased.
After complaining to the  museum for a second time, he said he took a can of black spray paint  and blotted out the word ``gay.''
``It was this kind of complacency  and apathy that allowed this to happen,'' he said of the beating in  which two local men have been charged, Russell Henderson and Aaron  McKinney.
According to the local police and prosecutors, the two men  lured Shepard out of a bar by saying they were gay.
Then, the Laramie  police say, the pair kidnapped Shepard, pistol-whipped him with a  .357 Magnum and left him tied to a ranch fence for 18 hours until  a passing bicyclist spotted Shepard, who was unconscious.
On Sunday,  the Laramie police said that McKinney had been arrested on Thursday  at the same hospital in Fort Collins where Shepard was being treated.
McKinney was being treated for a ``minor'' skull fracture unrelated  to the fracas with Shepard, said Ben Fritzen, a Laramie police detective.
President Clinton has condemned the attack, saying on Saturday, ``I  was deeply grieved by the act of violence perpetrated against Matthew  Shepard.''
Clinton urged Congress to pass the federal Hate Crimes  Prevention Act, saying, ``There is nothing more important to the future  of this country than our standing together against intolerance, prejudice  and violent bigotry.''
Wyoming is one of 10 states that does not have  a hate crime law.
The latest attempt died in the state Legislature  in Cheyenne in February.
On Saturday, Wyoming's governor, Jim Geringer,  said he was ``outraged and sickened'' by the attack.
Here in Laramie,  McKinney's father, Bill, also condemned the attack.
His pickup truck  was apparently used in the kidnapping.
But he also complained about  the massive attention by the national media.
The national press ``blew  it totally out of proportion because it involved a homosexual,'' McKinney  told The Denver Post.
`Had this been a heterosexual these two boys  decided to take out and rob, this never would have made the national  news.''
Shepard grew up in Casper until his sophomore year in high  school, when his father, an oil rig safety engineer, was transferred  to Saudi Arabia.
The young man completed high school at a boarding  school in Lugano, Switzerland, where he learned Italian and German.
On Saturday, his parents, Dennis and Judy Shepard, released a statement  from Fort Collins thanking ``the American public for their kind thoughts  about Matthew.''
``He is a trusting person who takes everybody at  face value and he does not see the bad side of anyone,'' the Shepards  wrote.
``He has always strongly felt that all people are the same,  regardless of their sexual preference, race or religion.''
Noting  that their son was born prematurely and that his ``life has often  been a struggle,'' they added, ``He is physically short in stature,  but we believe he is a giant when it comes to respecting the worth  of others.''
Matthew Shepard, the gay college student who was kidnapped and severely  beaten, died here Monday, five days after he was found unconscious  on a Wyoming ranch where he had been left tied to a fence for 18 hours  in near-freezing temperatures.
His death, announced at Poudre Valley  Hospital here, fanned the outrage that followed word of last week's  attack, spawning nationwide vigils, producing a call for federal hate-crimes  legislation from President Clinton and fueling debates over such laws  in a host of Western states, including Wyoming, that have resisted  them.
From Denver to the University of Maryland, people turned out  to honor the The slight, soft-spoken 21-year-old Shepard, a freshman  at the University of Wyoming, who became an overnight symbol of anti-gay  violence after he was found dangling from the fence by a passerby.
Two men and two women have been charged in the case.
The men were  charged with attempted murder and are expected to face first-degree  murder charges that could bring the death penalty.
``There is incredible  symbolism about being tied to a fence,'' said Rebecca Isaacs, political  director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force in Washington.
``People have likened it to a scarecrow.
But it sounded more like  and Christian conservatives fear  _ that Shepard's death will galvanize Congress and state legislatures  to pass hate-crime legislation or broaden existing laws.
Conservatives  generally oppose such laws because they favor one group's rights over  another.
In the last two decades, 21 states and the District of Columbia  have passed laws that increase penalties for crimes that are committed  because of a person's race, religion, color, national origin, and  sexual orientation.
Another 19 states, including Colorado, do not  include sexual orientation in their hate-crime laws.
Ten states, including  Wyoming, have no hate-crime laws at all.
In Washington, Clinton responded  to news of Shepard's death by urging Congress to pass the federal  Hate Crimes Protection Act, which would make federal offenses of crimes  based on sex, disability and sexual orientation.
Wyoming has been  one of the nation's holdouts, rejecting three hate crimes bills since  1994, most recently in February.
But Monday, after Shepard's death,  Gov. Jim Geringer appealed to lawmakers to reconsider their opposition.
``I ask for a collective suggestion for anti-bias, anti-hate legislation  that can be presented to the Wyoming Legislature for their consideration  in January,'' Geringer said.
The governor met Monday morning with  Dennis Shepard, the slain student's father, and said that the elder  Shepard did not want his son's death to become ``a media circus''  and that ``we should not use Matt to further an agenda.''
Geringer  said that Shepard's father also said: ``Don't rush into just passing  all kinds of new hate-crimes laws.
Be very careful of any changes  and be sure you're not taking away rights of others in the process  to race to this.''
Leaders of gay rights groups interviewed Monday  said they would respect the family's privacy by not attending the  burial in Casper, Wyo., on Saturday.
But they added that they hoped  the death would have an impact on legislators around the nation.
``Matthew's  death, I hope, will bring about a better and deeper understanding  of hate crime laws,'' said Elizabeth Birch, executive director of  the Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian and gay rights group that has  250,000 members.
``Matthew's death may lead to an awakening in Wyoming  and in the United States Congress as the need for this legislation.''
In 1996, 21 men and women were killed in the United States because  of their sexual orientation, according to the Southern Poverty Law  Center, an Alabama group that tracks violence against minorities.
According to the FBI, sexual orientation was a factor in 11.6 percent  of the 8,759 hate crimes recorded in 1996.
But Christian conservatives  warn that gay leaders want to use Shepard's death to expand hate rights  laws and to curtail freedom of speech.
``Hate crimes laws have nothing  to do with perpetrators of violent crime and everything to do with  silencing political opposition,'' said Steven Schwalm, an analyst  with the Family Research Council, a Washington group dedicated to  defending ``faith, family and freedom.''
``It would criminalize pro-family  beliefs,'' Schwalm said.
``This basically sends a message that you  can't disagree with the political message of homosexual activists.''
Agreement came from John Paulk, who was featured this summer in a  series of advertisements about how he and his wife, Anne, ``overcame''  homosexuality through religious conversion.
``We have every right  to speak out against an agenda that is contrary to Biblical norms,''  said Paulk, who describes himself as a homosexuality specialist for  Focus on the Family, a Christian group in Colorado Springs, Colo.
``Because we are standing up and opposing the homosexual agenda, we  are being looked upon as advocating violence against homosexuals,  when we categorically reject violence against homosexuals.''
Last  Thursday, the Family Research Council unveiled a series of television  advertisements that preach the ``healing'' of homosexuality through  religious conversion.
Gay leaders charge that these advertisements  help create a hostile climate for homosexuals, a climate that can  lead to violence.
Hate crime laws that are on the books in 40 states  have not impinged on freedom of speech, said Brian Levin, a criminal  justice professor who directs the Center on Hate and Extremism at  Stockton College, in Pomona, N.J. Instead, he said, hate crime laws  send a clear message that society does not tolerate attacks on minorities.
``We want to deter the broken windows and simple assaults before they  escalate,'' he said.
Referring to murders of homosexuals, he added:  ``These crimes are preventable.
Offenders get emboldened if they are  not punished the first time.''
Levin said that his research indicated  that homosexuals suffered higher rates of violent crime than the population  at large.
He also said that roughly half of the people who attack  homosexuals are male, aged 22 or younger.
The two men charged in the  killing of Shephard are both white, Russell Henderson, 21, and Aaron  McKinney, 22.
``With other crimes, violence is a means to an end.
With hate crimes, the violence becomes an unstoppable goal,'' Levin  said.
Shepard suffered a dozen cuts around the head, face and neck,  as well as a massive blow to the back of his skull.
``Because their  social stature in society, gays are often viewed as appropriate targets,''  Levin added.
Citing the need for hate crime laws to send a clear message  to gay bashers, Levin said: ``The discourse in society leaves many  of these people to believe that what they are doing is socially acceptable.''
While some gay leaders saw crucifixion imagery in Shepard's death,  others saw a different symbolism: the Old West practice of nailing  a dead coyote to a ranch fence as a warning to future intruders.
``This  University of Wyoming student was beaten and left to die, tied to  a fence like an animal because he was honest and open about being  gay,'' Beatrice Dorhn, legal director of the Lambda Legal Defense  and Education Fund, said Monday, ``Matthew Shepard's horrible suffering  and death cannot be dismissed simply as the fault of deranged, isolated  individuals.
His attackers are among millions of Americans who constantly  hear the message that gay people are not worthy of the most basic  equal treatment,'' Ms. Dorhn said.
Matthew Shepard, the gay college student who was kidnapped and severely  beaten, died here Monday, five days after he was found unconscious  on a Wyoming ranch where he had been left tied to a fence for 18 hours  in near-freezing temperatures.
His death, announced at Poudre Valley  Hospital here, fanned the outrage that followed word of last week's  attack, spawning nationwide vigils, producing a call for federal hate-crimes  legislation from President Clinton and fueling debates over such laws  in a host of Western states, including Wyoming, that have resisted  them.
From Denver to the University of Maryland, people turned out  to honor the The slight, soft-spoken 21-year-old Shepard, a freshman  at the University of Wyoming, who became an overnight symbol of anti-gay  violence after he was found dangling from the fence by a passerby.
Russell Anderson, 21, and Aaron McKinney, 21, were charged with attempted  murder and are expected to face first-degree murder charges that could  bring the death penalty.
Their girlfriends, Chastity Pasley, 21, and  Kristen Price, 18, were charged as accessories.
In Denver, mourners  wrote messages on a graffiti wall as part of national Gay Awareness  Week.
In San Francisco, a giant rainbow flag that symbolizes the gay  rights movement was lowered to half-staff in the Castro district.
``There is incredible symbolism about being tied to a fence,'' said  Rebecca Isaacs, political director of the National Gay and Lesbian  Task Force in Washington.
``People have likened it to a scarecrow.
But it sounded more like a crucifixion.''
Police in Laramie, Wyo.,  where the beating took place, have said they believed robbery was  the primary motive for the attack against Shepard, which occurred  outside a bar in the town of 27,000.
But investigators also said Shepard's  sexuality may have been a factor.
Police said Henderson and McKinney  lured Shepard from the bar by saying they too were gay and one of  their girlfriends said Shepard had embarassed one of the men by making  a pass at him.
Monday, police said that after leaving Shepard tied  to the fence, the men returned to Laramie and picked a fight on a  street corner with two Hispanic men, Emiliano Morales, 19, and Jeremy  Herrera, 18.
McKinney and Morales suffered head injuries in the brawl;  McKinney was arrested when he sought treatment at the same hospital  and Christian conservatives  fear _ that Shepard's death will galvanize Congress and state legislatures  to pass hate-crime legislation or broaden existing laws.
Conservatives  generally oppose such laws because they favor one group's rights over  another.
In the last two decades, 21 states and the District of Columbia  have passed laws that increase penalties for crimes that are committed  because of a person's race, religion, color, national origin, and  sexual orientation.
Another 19 states, including Colorado, do not  include sexual orientation in their hate-crime laws.
Ten states, including  Wyoming, have no hate-crime laws at all.
In Washington, Clinton responded  to news of Shepard's death by urging Congress to pass the federal  Hate Crimes Protection Act, which would make federal offenses of crimes  based on sex, disability and sexual orientation.
Wyoming has been  one of the nation's holdouts, rejecting three hate crimes bills since  1994, most recently in February.
But Monday, after Shepard's death,  Gov. Jim Geringer appealed to lawmakers to reconsider their opposition.
``I ask for a collective suggestion for anti-bias, anti-hate legislation  that can be presented to the Wyoming Legislature for their consideration  in January,'' Geringer said.
The governor met Monday morning with  Dennis Shepard, the slain student's father, and said that the elder  Shepard did not want his son's death to become ``a media circus''  and that ``we should not use Matt to further an agenda.''
Geringer  said that Shepard's father also said: ``Don't rush into just passing  all kinds of new hate-crimes laws.
Be very careful of any changes  and be sure you're not taking away rights of others in the process  to race to this.''
Leaders of gay rights groups interviewed Monday  said they would respect the family's privacy by not attending the  burial in Casper, Wyo., on Saturday.
But they added that they hoped  the death would have an impact on legislators around the nation.
``Matthew's  death, I hope, will bring about a better and deeper understanding  of hate crime laws,'' said Elizabeth Birch, executive director of  the Human Rights Campaign, a lesbian and gay rights group that has  250,000 members.
``Matthew's death may lead to an awakening in Wyoming  and in the United States Congress as the need for this legislation.''
In 1996, 21 men and women were killed in the United States because  of their sexual orientation, according to the Southern Poverty Law  Center, an Alabama group that tracks violence against minorities.
According to the FBI, sexual orientation was a factor in 11.6 percent  of the 8,759 hate crimes recorded in 1996.
But Christian conservatives  warn that gay leaders want to use Shepard's death to expand hate rights  laws and to curtail freedom of speech.
``Hate crimes laws have nothing  to do with perpetrators of violent crime and everything to do with  silencing political opposition,'' said Steven Schwalm, an analyst  with the Family Research Council, a Washington group dedicated to  defending ``faith, family and freedom.''
``It would criminalize pro-family  beliefs,'' Schwalm said.
``This basically sends a message that you  can't disagree with the political message of homosexual activists.''
Agreement came from John Paulk, who was featured this summer in a  series of advertisements about how he and his wife, Anne, ``overcame''  homosexuality through religious conversion.
``We have every right  to speak out against an agenda that is contrary to Biblical norms,''  said Paulk, who describes himself as a homosexuality specialist for  Focus on the Family, a Christian group in Colorado Springs, Colo.
``Because we are standing up and opposing the homosexual agenda, we  are being looked upon as advocating violence against homosexuals,  when we categorically reject violence against homosexuals.''
Last  Thursday, the Family Research Council unveiled a series of television  advertisements that preach the ``healing'' of homosexuality through  religious conversion.
Gay leaders charge that these advertisements  help create a hostile climate for homosexuals, a climate that can  lead to violence.
Hate crime laws that are on the books in 40 states  have not impinged on freedom of speech, said Brian Levin, a criminal  justice professor who directs the Center on Hate and Extremism at  Stockton College, in Pomona, N.J. Instead, he said, hate crime laws  send a clear message that society does not tolerate attacks on minorities.
``We want to deter the broken windows and simple assaults before they  escalate,'' he said.
Referring to murders of homosexuals, he added:  ``These crimes are preventable.
Offenders get emboldened if they are  not punished the first time.''
Levin said that his research indicated  that homosexuals suffered higher rates of violent crime than the population  at large.
He also said that roughly half of the people who attack  homosexuals are male, aged 22 or younger.
``With other crimes, violence  is a means to an end.
With hate crimes, the violence becomes an unstoppable  goal,'' Levin said.
Shepard suffered a dozen cuts around the head,  face and neck, as well as a massive blow to the back of his skull.
``Because their social stature in society, gays are often viewed as  appropriate targets,'' Levin added.
Citing the need for hate crime  laws to send a clear message to gay bashers, Levin said: ``The discourse  in society leaves many of these people to believe that what they are  doing is socially acceptable.''
While some gay leaders saw crucifixion  imagery in Shepard's death, others saw a different symbolism: the  Old West practice of nailing a dead coyote to a ranch fence as a warning  to future intruders.
``This University of Wyoming student was beaten  and left to die, tied to a fence like an animal because he was honest  and open about being gay,'' Beatrice Dorhn, legal director of the  Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, said Monday, ``Matthew Shepard's  horrible suffering and death cannot be dismissed simply as the fault  of deranged, isolated individuals.
His attackers are among millions  of Americans who constantly hear the message that gay people are not  worthy of the most basic equal treatment,'' Ms. Dorhn said.
On the same day Americans learned last week that Matthew Shepard,  a 5-foot-2, 105-pound gay college student, had been tortured, strung  up like an animal and left to die on a fence outside Laramie, Wyo.,  the Family Research Council was co-hosting a press conference in Washington.
It was the latest salvo in a six-month campaign by the religious right,  with the tacit, even explicit, approval of Republican leaders, to  demonize gay people for political gain in this election year.
This   a TV follow-up to a summer print campaign _ in which alleged former  homosexuals who have ``changed'' implore others to do likewise ``through  the power of Jesus Christ.''
The commercials, gooey in style, end  with a slogan: ``It's not about hate ... It's about hope.''
But it's  really about stirring up the fear that produces hate.
If these ads  were truly aimed at gay people, they wouldn't be broadcast at extravagant  cost to the wide general audience reached by TV, and they wouldn't  be trumpeted in Washington, insuring free national exposure, three  weeks before Election Day.
The ads themselves, despite the sugar-coating  of ``hope,'' ooze malice.
In one of them, homosexuality is linked  to drug addiction and certain death by AIDS; all of them implicitly  posit that homosexuality is itself a disease in need of a cure.
Matthew  Shepard has now been ``cured,'' that's for sure.
As his uncle, R.W.  Eaton, told The Denver Post, the 21-year-old Matt, who aspired to  a career in diplomacy and human rights, was ``a small person with  a big heart, mind and soul that someone tried to beat out of him.''
Of his nephew's shattered body Eaton said, ``It's like something you  might see in war.''
And a war it is.
Go to the Family Research Council's  Web site and you will find a proud description of its readiness to  ``wage the war against the homosexual agenda and fight to maintain  the traditional meaning of `family.'''
The head of the Family Research  Council is Gary Bauer, a GOP power broker and putative presidential  candidate, who disingenuously goes on talk shows to say that his organization  hates no one and deplores violence.
But if you wage a well-financed  media air war in which people with an innate difference in sexual  orientation are ceaselessly branded as sinful and diseased and un-American  seekers of ``special rights,'' ground war will follow.
It's a story  as old as history.
Once any group is successfully scapegoated as a  subhuman threat to ``normal'' values by a propaganda machine, emboldened  thugs take over.
Two weeks after James Byrd was savagely dragged to  his death from a pickup truck in Texas in June, I wrote a column about  an ugly incident outside the GOP state convention in Fort Worth, where  a mob threatened a group of gay Log Cabin Republicans who were protesting  discriminatory treatment by their own party.
The gay-bashers had been  directly preceded by steady saber-rattling from Republican politicians:  Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma had likened James Hormel, a gay nominee  to an ambassadorship, to David Duke; Pat Robertson had wondered on  TV if God might wreak havoc on Disney World for its ``Gay Days'';  the Texas GOP spokesman had likened Log Cabin to the Ku Klux Klan.
Just two days after this near-brush with violence in Fort Worth, Trent  Lott was on TV seconding the religious right's condemnation of gay  people as sinful and sick.
A frightened gay Texas Republican who had  been at the convention melee asked when I interviewed him then: ``Do  you have to have someone hurt and beat up and dragged from a truck  to stop this?''
Months later not even the murder in Laramie has moved  Lott to apologize for his words, and still no major GOP leader dares  take on its ``religious'' wing and its crusade against people like  Matthew Shepard.
In one of the new ads in that supposedly hate-free  crusade, an ostensibly loving mother condemns her son for the ``bad  choice'' of being gay.
Is it that mother who speaks for American values,  or is it Matthew's?
``Go home, give your kids a hug,'' Judy Shepard  said in a message read by a tearful hospital spokesman who announced  her child's death early Monday morning, ``and don't let a day go by  without telling them you love them.''
Last Saturday morning, while Matthew Shepard lay comatose from a beating,  a college homecoming parade passed a few blocks from his hospital  bed in Fort Collins.
Propped on a fraternity float was a straw-haired  scarecrow, labeled in black spray paint: ``I'm Gay.''
Few people missed  the message.
Three days earlier, Shepard, a gay University of Wyoming  freshman, was savagely beaten and tied to a ranch fence in such a  position that a passerby first mistook him for a scarecrow.
Tuesday,  officials at Colorado State University reacted with outrage to the  fraternity float, opening an investigation and disciplinary procedures  against the fraternity, Pi Kappa Alpha.
The fraternity chapter immediately  suspended seven members and said they had acted independently.
But  in a week when candlelight vigils for Shepard were being held on campuses  across the nation, the scarecrow incident highlighted how hostility  toward gay people often flourishes in high schools and universities,  gay leaders said Tuesday.
``People would like to think that what happened  to Matthew was an exception to the rule but, it was an extreme version  of what happens in our schools on a daily basis,'' said Kevin Jennings,  executive director of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network,  a New York group dedicated to ending anti-gay bias in the schools.
Shepard, a slightly built 21-year-old, died on Monday morning from  the injuries suffered in the beating.
He never regained consciousness  after being discovered on the evening of Oct. 7, 18 hours after he  was lashed to the fence.
Two men, Russell Henderson, 21, and Aaron  McKinney, 22, were arraigned late Monday night on first-degree murder  charges.
Their girlfriends, Chasity Pasley, 20, and Kristen Price,  18, have been arraigned as accessories after the fact.
In response  to the killing, about 50 candelight vigils were scheduled this week,  from Texas to Vermont, from Wayne, Neb., to New York City.
At the  Poudre Valley Hospital in Fort Collins where Shepard was in intensive  care for five days, his parents, Dennis and Judy Shepard, received  about 6,000 electronic messages of condolences.
Tuesday, when funeral  arrangements were announced for Friday in Casper, Wyo., the hospital  Web site received 30,000 hits an hour.
Friends at the University of  Wyoming in Laramie, Wyo., have set up The Matthew Shepard Memorial  Fund to raise money to pressure the state legislature to pass anti-hate  crime legislation.
``I see his name going down in gay history as a  catalyst for renewed activism,'' said Matt Foreman, a former Wyomingite  who directs Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay political organization  in New York.
From around the nation Tuesday, gay leaders stressed  that campus homophobia is not restricted to college towns in the Rocky  Mountain West.
Last year, in a survey of almost 4,000 Massachusetts  high school students, 22 percent of gay respondents said they skipped  school in the past month because they felt unsafe at school, and 31  percent said they had been threatened or injured at school in the  past year.
These percentages were about five times greater than the  percentages of heterosexual respondents.
The survey was conducted  at 58 high schools by the Massachusetts Department of Education.
In  a separate study of nearly 500 community college students in the San  Francisco area, 32 percent of male respondents said they had verbally  threatened gay people and 18 percent said they had physically threatened  or assaulted gay people.
The study was conducted this year by Karen  Franklin, a forensic psychologist who is a researcher at the University  of Washington.
Surveys of gay college students conducted in the late  1980s at Yale University, Oberlin College, Rutgers University and  Penn State found that 16 percent to 26 percent had been threatened  with violence, and that 40 percent to 76 percent had been verbally  harassed, said the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, a lobbying  group based in Washington.
Last year, a student group in Des Moines,  Iowa, called Concerned Students, recorded hallway and classroom conversations  at five high schools on 10 ``homophobia recording day.''
They estimated  that the average Des Moines high school student hears about 25 anti-gay  remarks every day.
``Nine out of 10 `teaching tolerance' courses weed  out gays,'' Foreman said.
``There are a lot of people preaching anti-racism  and anti-semitism.
But it is still very much OK to make anti-gay jokes,  to express anti-gay sentiments.''
In a survey of the nation's 42 largest  school districts, 76 percent do not train teachers on issues facing  gay students, and 42 percent do not have policies to protect students  from discrimination based on sexual orientation, said the Gay, Lesbian  and Straight Education Network, which conducted the survey last month.
In Fort Collins, while hospital officials struggled with an electronic  avalanche of condolences, city police detectives were investigating  a different kind of e-mail.
On Monday, hours after Shepard's death,  two gay organizations, the Rainbow Chorus and the Lambda Community  Center, received identical messages applauding Shepard's murder.
The  messages closed with the words: ``I hope it happens more often.''
Matthew Wayne Shepard, the gay student who was beaten in the dead  of night, tied to a fence and left to die alone, was mourned at his  funeral Friday by 1,000 people, including many who had never met him.
``Matt believed that if he had made one person's life better, he had  succeeded,'' his cousin, the Rev. Anne Kitch, said in a homily that  was carried beyond the packed pews of St. Mark's Episcopal Church,  through a filled parish hall, across the street to a packed Presbyterian  church and across Casper on an AM radio station.
``Judging from the  world's response,'' she said, ``Matt will have made a difference in  the lives of thousands.''
As the first snowstorm of the fall blanketed  Casper, fresh flowers filled the red brick church here where Shepard  had been baptized as a teen-ager and where he once wore the white  robes of an Episcopal acolyte.
``There is an image that comes to mind  when I reflect on Matt on that wooden cross rail fence,'' said the  Rev. Royce Brown, the pastor of St. Mark's, in a eulogy.
``I replace  that image with that of another man hung upon a cross.
When I concentrate  on that man, I can release the bitterness inside.''
Shepard, a 21-year-old  freshman at the University of Wyoming, had dreamed of working one  day for human rights.
In death, he has become a national catalyst  for a new drive to guarantee for gay people the right to physical  safety.
His death hit a nerve in the nation this week, eliciting dozens  of candlelight vigils and rallies for tolerance, several statements  of sadness from President Clinton, and a congressional resolution.
Thursday, the House of Representatives passed by voice vote a resolution  that condemned Shepard's killing as ``outrageous'' and that urged  each member of Congress and every U.S. citizen ``to denounce this  outrageous murder of another human being.''
In one of the largest  rallies, about 1,000 people, including members of Congress of both  parties, gathered on the steps of the Capitol in Washington to condemn  the Shepherd's killing and to urge passage of a federal bill that  would add extra penalties to crimes motivated by a victim's sexual  orientation, gender or disability.
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt  urged passage of the bill, leading the crowd in a chant of ``Now!
Now!
Now.''
``We will never forget the love that the world has shared  with this kind, loving son,'' said Shepherd's father, Dennis, his  father, outside Casper City Hall, as his mother, Judy, stood by, weeping.
He said the family was ``touched beyond measure'' by ``the thousands  of e-mail comments, Web-site messages, phone calls and cards offering  help, consolation, sympathy and support.''
Before the funeral, about  a dozen protesters, largely from Kansas and Texas, waved signs with  anti-homosexual messages.
But mourners stood in front of them, singing  ``Amazing Grace'' and holding umbrellas to block the sight of the  spectacle from friends and family members entering the church.
On  hearing of the protest, Laramie's City Council held an emergency meeting  Thursday night and unanimously passed an ordinance banning protests  during funerals.
Wyoming Gov. Jim Geringer had warned in advance that  anti-gay protesters were ``just flat not welcome.''
The governor,  a Republican, added, ``What we don't need is a bunch of wingnuts coming  in.''
Shepard was born in Casper and attended elementary school, junior  high and several years of high school and college here.
With flags  at Casper's public schools flying at half-staff Friday, many mourners  were his old classmates.
Others traveled here, one driving from as  far away as New Jersey, out of a sense of solidarity.
``I've had a  pit in my heart and my stomach since I heard this,'' said Steve Pietrangelo,  who drove 300 miles to wait three hours in cold rain and snow to attend  the funeral of a man he never met.
``I just wanted to pay my respects  to him and his family.''
Touching people of all walks of life, Shepard's  murder has elicited calls for tolerance of homosexuals from unexpected  quarters.
At the University of Wyoming this fall, football players  will wear yellow and green stickers on their helmets in memory of  Shepard.
Organizers said that yellow signifies tolerance and green  symbolizes peace.
In Casper, a conservative city of 51,000, located  in the heart of Wyoming's oil belt, tolerance has become the watchword.
``Prejudice against homosexuals is just as redneck as anti-black bias,'`  The Casper Star-Tribune, Wyoming's largest newspaper, wrote in its  main editorial on Sunday.
``Violence against our homosexual friends  and neighbors has created a most un-American climate of fear in Wyoming  and the rest of the nation.''
Monday, Jason Marsden, the newspaper's  political reporter, wrote lovingly that, ``Matthew Shepard is still  my friend, and not just because we are both members of the loose-knit  community of gay people striving to make our way in this sometimes  hostile place called Wyoming.''
``Matt was very short and hard to  hug,'' Marsden recalled of the young man who had grown up in Casper.
``But it was worth trying, because he'd hug you with everything in  his little, fragile frame.''
In a week of spiritual reflection, Aaron  Kreifels, the University of Wyoming freshman who found his battered  classmate Oct. 7, attributed the chance discovery to ``God's plan.''
On that afternoon, Kreifels, an 18-year-old architectural engineering  student, had nearly completed a rigorous six-mile ride on a mountain  bike up and down Cactus Canyon, in public lands east of Laramie.
Kreifels  recalled in an interview Thursday that his only mishap of the ride,  ``I hit this big limestone rock and did one over the handlebars.''
Dusting himself off and looking around in the fading light of the  day, Kreifels recalled, ``I noticed something out of my eye that looked  like a scarecrow.
I walked around the fence, and as I got closer,  I noticed the hair.''
Shepard, his hands bound behind his back with  a nylon cord and tied to a fence post, was lying on the ground, face  up, unconscious.
``Sometimes I wonder why I found him alive, if he  was going to die,'' Kreifels reflected, before traveling to spend  this weekend at home with his parents in Grand Island, Neb. ``But  I guess God wanted his parents to be with him.''
Matthew Wayne Shepard, the gay student who was beaten in the dead  of night, tied to a fence and left to die alone, was mourned at his  funeral Friday by 1,000 people, including many who had never met him.
``Matt believed that if he had made one person's life better, he had  succeeded,'' his cousin, the Rev. Anne Kitch, said in a homily that  was carried beyond the packed pews of St. Mark's Episcopal Church,  through a filled parish hall, across the street to a packed Presbyterian  church and across Casper on an AM radio station.
``Judging from the  world's response,'' she said, ``Matt will have made a difference in  the lives of thousands.''
As the first snowstorm of the fall blanketed  Casper, fresh flowers filled the red brick church here where Shepard  had been baptized as a teen-ager and where he once wore the white  robes of an Episcopal acolyte.
``There is an image that comes to mind  when I reflect on Matt on that wooden cross rail fence,'' said the  Rev. Royce Brown, the pastor of St. Mark's, in a eulogy.
``I replace  that image with that of another man hung upon a cross.
When I concentrate  on that man, I can release the bitterness inside.''
Shepard, a 21-year-old  freshman at the University of Wyoming, had dreamed of working one  day for human rights.
In death, he has become a national catalyst  for a new drive to guarantee for gay people the right to physical  safety.
His death hit a nerve in the nation this week, eliciting dozens  of candlelight vigils and rallies for tolerance, several statements  of sadness from President Clinton, and a congressional resolution.
Thursday, the House of Representatives passed by voice vote a resolution  that condemned Shepard's killing as ``outrageous'' and that urged  each member of Congress and every U.S. citizen ``to denounce this  outrageous murder of another human being.''
In one of the largest  rallies, about 1,000 people, including members of Congress of both  parties, gathered on the steps of the Capitol in Washington to condemn  Shepherd's killing and to urge passage of a federal bill that would  add extra penalties to crimes motivated by a victim's sexual orientation,  gender or disability.
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt urged passage  of the bill, leading the crowd in a chant of ``Now!
Now!
Now.''
``We  will never forget the love that the world has shared with this kind,  loving son,'' said Shepherd's father, Dennis, his father, outside  Casper City Hall, as his mother, Judy, stood by, weeping.
He said  the family was ``touched beyond measure'' by ``the thousands of e-mail  comments, Web-site messages, phone calls and cards offering help,  consolation, sympathy and support.''
Before the funeral, about a dozen  protesters, largely from Kansas and Texas, waved signs with anti-homosexual  messages.
But mourners stood in front of them, singing ``Amazing Grace''  and holding umbrellas to block the sight of the spectacle from friends  and family members entering the church.
On hearing of the protest,  Laramie's City Council held an emergency meeting Thursday night and  unanimously passed an ordinance banning protests during funerals.
Wyoming Gov. Jim Geringer had warned in advance that anti-gay protesters  were ``just flat not welcome.''
The governor, a Republican, added,  ``What we don't need is a bunch of wingnuts coming in.''
Shepard was  born in Casper and attended elementary school, junior high and several  years of high school and college here.
With flags at Casper's public  schools flying at half-staff Friday, many mourners were his old classmates.
Others traveled here, one driving from as far away as New Jersey,  out of a sense of solidarity.
``I've had a pit in my heart and my  stomach since I heard this,'' said Steve Pietrangelo, who drove 300  miles to wait three hours in cold rain and snow to attend the funeral  of a man he never met.
``I just wanted to pay my respects to him and  his family.''
Touching people of all walks of life, Shepard's murder  has elicited calls for tolerance of homosexuals from unexpected quarters.
At the University of Wyoming this fall, football players will wear  yellow and green stickers on their helmets in memory of Shepard.
Organizers  said that yellow signifies tolerance and green symbolizes peace.
In  Casper, a conservative city of 51,000, located in the heart of Wyoming's  oil belt, tolerance has become the watchword.
``Prejudice against  homosexuals is just as redneck as anti-black bias,'` The Casper Star-Tribune,  Wyoming's largest newspaper, wrote in its main editorial on Sunday.
``Violence against our homosexual friends and neighbors has created  a most un-American climate of fear in Wyoming and the rest of the  nation.''
Monday, Jason Marsden, the newspaper's political reporter,  wrote lovingly that, ``Matthew Shepard is still my friend, and not  just because we are both members of the loose-knit community of gay  people striving to make our way in this sometimes hostile place called  Wyoming.''
``Matt was very short and hard to hug,'' Marsden recalled  of the young man who had grown up in Casper.
``But it was worth trying,  because he'd hug you with everything in his little, fragile frame.''
In a week of spiritual reflection, Aaron Kreifels, the University  of Wyoming freshman who found his battered classmate Oct. 7, attributed  the chance discovery to ``God's plan.''
On that afternoon, Kreifels,  an 18-year-old architectural engineering student, had nearly completed  a rigorous six-mile ride on a mountain bike up and down Cactus Canyon,  in public lands east of Laramie.
Kreifels recalled in an interview  Thursday that his only mishap of the ride, ``I hit this big limestone  rock and did one over the handlebars.''
Dusting himself off and looking  around in the fading light of the day, Kreifels recalled, ``I noticed  something out of my eye that looked like a scarecrow.
I walked around  the fence, and as I got closer, I noticed the hair.''
Shepard, his  hands bound behind his back with a nylon cord and tied to a fence  post, was lying on the ground, face up, unconscious.
``Sometimes I  wonder why I found him alive, if he was going to die,'' Kreifels reflected,  before traveling to spend this weekend at home with his parents in  Grand Island, Neb. ``But I guess God wanted his parents to be with  him.''
Matthew Wayne Shepard, the gay student who was beaten in the dead  of night, tied to a fence and left to die alone, was mourned at his  funeral Friday by 1,000 people, including many who had never met him.
``Matt believed that if he had made one person's life better, he had  succeeded,'' his cousin, the Rev. Anne Kitch, said in a homily that  was carried beyond the packed pews of St. Mark's Episcopal Church,  through a filled parish hall, across the street to a packed Presbyterian  church and across Casper on an AM radio station.
``Judging from the  world's response,'' she said, ``Matt will have made a difference in  the lives of thousands.''
As the first snowstorm of the fall blanketed  Casper, fresh flowers filled the red brick church here where Shepard  had been baptized as a teen-ager and where he once wore the white  robes of an Episcopal acolyte.
``There is an image that comes to mind  when I reflect on Matt on that wooden cross rail fence,'' said the  Rev. Royce Brown, the pastor of St. Mark's, in a eulogy.
``I replace  that image with that of another man hung upon a cross.
When I concentrate  on that man, I can release the bitterness inside.''
Shepard, a 21-year-old  freshman at the University of Wyoming, had dreamed of working one  day for human rights.
In death, he has become a national catalyst  for a new drive to guarantee for gay people the right to physical  safety.
His death hit a nerve in the nation this week, eliciting dozens  of candlelight vigils and rallies for tolerance, several statements  of sadness from President Clinton, and a congressional resolution.
Thursday, the House of Representatives passed by voice vote a resolution  that condemned Shepard's killing as ``outrageous'' and that urged  each member of Congress and every U.S. citizen ``to denounce this  outrageous murder of another human being.''
In one of the largest  rallies, about 1,000 people, including members of Congress of both  parties, gathered on the steps of the Capitol in Washington to condemn  Shepherd's killing and to urge passage of a federal bill that would  add extra penalties to crimes motivated by a victim's sexual orientation,  gender or disability.
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt urged passage  of the bill, leading the crowd in a chant of ``Now!
Now!
Now.''
``We  will never forget the love that the world has shared with this kind,  loving son,'' said Shepherd's father, Dennis, his father, outside  Casper City Hall, as his mother, Judy, stood by, weeping.
He said  the family was ``touched beyond measure'' by ``the thousands of e-mail  comments, Web-site messages, phone calls and cards offering help,  consolation, sympathy and support.''
Before the funeral, about a dozen  protesters, largely from Kansas and Texas, waved signs with anti-homosexual  messages.
But mourners stood in front of them, singing ``Amazing Grace''  and holding umbrellas to block the sight of the spectacle from friends  and family members entering the church.
On hearing of the protest,  the Casper City Council held an emergency meeting Thursday night and  unanimously passed an ordinance banning protests during funerals.
Wyoming Gov. Jim Geringer had warned in advance that anti-gay protesters  were ``just flat not welcome.''
The governor, a Republican, added,  ``What we don't need is a bunch of wingnuts coming in.''
Shepard was  born in Casper and attended elementary school, junior high and several  years of high school and college here.
With flags at Casper's public  schools flying at half-staff Friday, many mourners were his old classmates.
Others traveled here, one driving from as far away as New Jersey,  out of a sense of solidarity.
``I've had a pit in my heart and my  stomach since I heard this,'' said Steve Pietrangelo, who drove 300  miles to wait three hours in cold rain and snow to attend the funeral  of a man he never met.
``I just wanted to pay my respects to him and  his family.''
Touching people of all walks of life, Shepard's murder  has elicited calls for tolerance of homosexuals from unexpected quarters.
At the University of Wyoming this fall, football players will wear  yellow and green stickers on their helmets in memory of Shepard.
Organizers  said that yellow signifies tolerance and green symbolizes peace.
In  Casper, a conservative city of 51,000, located in the heart of Wyoming's  oil belt, tolerance has become the watchword.
``Prejudice against  homosexuals is just as redneck as anti-black bias,'` The Casper Star-Tribune,  Wyoming's largest newspaper, wrote in its main editorial on Sunday.
``Violence against our homosexual friends and neighbors has created  a most un-American climate of fear in Wyoming and the rest of the  nation.''
Monday, Jason Marsden, the newspaper's political reporter,  wrote lovingly that, ``Matthew Shepard is still my friend, and not  just because we are both members of the loose-knit community of gay  people striving to make our way in this sometimes hostile place called  Wyoming.''
``Matt was very short and hard to hug,'' Marsden recalled  of the young man who had grown up in Casper.
``But it was worth trying,  because he'd hug you with everything in his little, fragile frame.''
In a week of spiritual reflection, Aaron Kreifels, the University  of Wyoming freshman who found his battered classmate Oct. 7, attributed  the chance discovery to ``God's plan.''
On that afternoon, Kreifels,  an 18-year-old architectural engineering student, had nearly completed  a rigorous six-mile ride on a mountain bike up and down Cactus Canyon,  in public lands east of Laramie.
Kreifels recalled in an interview  Thursday his only mishap of the ride, ``I hit this big limestone rock  and did one over the handlebars.''
Dusting himself off and looking  around in the fading light of the day, Kreifels recalled, ``I noticed  something out of my eye that looked like a scarecrow.
I walked around  the fence, and as I got closer, I noticed the hair.''
Shepard, his  hands bound behind his back with a nylon cord and tied to a fence  post, was lying on the ground, face up, unconscious.
``Sometimes I  wonder why I found him alive, if he was going to die,'' Kreifels reflected,  before traveling to spend this weekend at home with his parents in  Grand Island, Neb. ``But I guess God wanted his parents to be with  him.''
Turkey's Prime Minister Yilmaz was ousted by a no-confidence vote in Parliament over allegations of interfering in a bank privatization and having mob ties.
Ecevit, a former prime minister, was asked to form a new government.
He was unable to win the support of Ciller for a secular coalition.
Refusing any alliance with the Islamic Virtue Party, Ecevit turned to President Demirel to find another solution.
Demirel was expected to turn to a widely trusted lawmaker to form Turkey's next government.
New premier-designate Erez got backing from 2 key secular parties as he tried to form a broad-based secular coalition that would include some from the Virtue Party.
Following charges that he interfered in a privatization contract and helped a businessman with mob ties, Turkish Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz was forced to resign.
President Demeril asked Bulent Ecevit, former three-time prime minister from the 1970s and champion of Turkish Cypriot rights, to form a new government.
After three weeks, Ecevit was unable to secure the support of the Center-Right Party.
At issue was the participation of the Islamic Virtue Part in the secular government, Ecevit returned his mandate and Demeril named Valim Erez as prime minister designate.
Erez was in talks with the Virtue Party over possible cabinet seats.
Turkish PM Yilmaz was forced to step down due to mob ties and claims of state bank privatization tampering.
President Demirel asked highly respected 3-time former PM Bulent Ecevit to form a new majority government.
A split between parliament's center left and right is longstanding.
Ecevit distrusted Yilmaz and Ciller but brought in Yilmaz's party and wooed Ciller's.
She wouldn't join unless Islamic Virtue were included, which the secular parties resisted.
After a 3-week effort, Ecevit gave up rather than include Virtue.
Yalim Erez tried next and won the backing of 2 key secular parties.
He will talk to Ciller and run Turkey until the April 18 election.
For more than a month, Turkish politicians have been trying to form a new government.
The last prime minister was voted out after charges of corruption and mob ties.
Longtime politician and three-time prime minister, Ecevit, tried for two weeks to form a coalition, which would satisfy the staunchly secular military.
He failed when he could not get the support of both center-right parties.
The president then asked a member of Parliament to form an interim coalition government to serve until the April election.
Erez attained center-right support if he sticks to secular principles, but he may be forced to give some Cabinet seats to the Islamic Virtue Party.
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) - Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz on Wednesday faced  intense pressure to step down after allegations that he interfered  in a privatization contract and helped a businessman linked to a mobster  secure loans.
Deniz Baykal, leader of the center-left Republican party  whose backing in parliament helps Yilmaz's minority government, said  he would withdraw his support unless the premier resigned immediately.
Two opposition parties threatened to press for a motion to censure  the government.
The allegations were made by businessman Korkmaz Yigit,  who claimed that Yilmaz and Gunes Taner, the economy minister, had  encouraged him to buy the state-run bank Turkbank, offering him loans  from other state banks to ensure that his offer was the highest bid.
Yigit's allegations were carried Tuesday night on two of his TV channels  which showed a videotape he had made to explain his version of the  story before his detention Monday evening for questioning about the  bidding.
Yigit bought the bank at a public auction in August for dlrs  600 million.
The government suspended the privatization last month  after a lawmaker released an audio tape of a conversation supposedly  between Yigit and mobster Alaattin Cakici.
On that earlier tape, Cakici  was heard assuring Yigit that he will fend off rival bidders.
It was  not clear who made the tape, which got into the hands of an opposition  deputy.
Yigit claimed Yilmaz and Taner were aware of Cakici's involvement  in the bidding for the bank but urged him nevertheless to go ahead  with the bidding.
Yilmaz has said that an intelligence report revealing  Yigit's ties with Cakici only reached him after Yigit won the tender.
Yigit said the premier had also encouraged him to buy mass-circulation  national newspaper Milliyet, apparently to ensure the paper's backing  to his center-right Motherland party in elections next year.
Milliyet's  sale to Yigit was canceled after the scandal.
Cakici was arrested  in France in August.
Turkey has requested his extradition.
Last month  State Minister Eyup Asik resigned after allegations he had been in  close contact with Cakici.
Opposition parties lodged no-confidence motions Wednesday against  Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz after allegations he interfered in the  privatization of a bank and helped a businessman linked to a mobster.
Yilmaz' minority government could go down if the the small, center-left  Republican Party, which usually gives him the majority he needs in  parliament, votes against him.
The leader of the Republicans, Deniz  Baykal, urged Yilmaz to resign.
But the premier vowed Wednesday to  stay on, saying he was the victim of a conspiracy.
``This is a plot  and it can't be a reason for a resignation,'' Yilmaz said, adding  that he intended to continue the ``struggle against organized crime.''
Afterward, Baykal said the Republicans would support a no-confidence  motion.
The leader of the Democratic Turkey Party, Husamettin Cindoruk,  said his party might withdraw from the governing coalition.
He said  the party would announce its decision Thursday.
The political turmoil  sent the Istanbul stock market plunging 14.9 percent.
Parliament convened Thursday to vote on whether to move toward a no-confidence  motion that could bring down the government over an organized crime  scandal.
Thursday's vote to put the motion on the agenda will be an  indication of the government's chances of survival, which are said  to be extremely slim.
If approved, the legislature will debate the  motions on Monday and hold the no-confidence vote Wednesday.
The opposition  accuses Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz of having ties to organized crime  and tampering with the privatization of a state bank.
He denies the  charges.
``Ousting the government from power will open the way for  the struggle against gangs,'' said Lutfu Esengun, a deputy from the  Islamic Virtue Party, which presented one of the three no-confidence  motions to Parliament.
On Wednesday, 6th graf pvs
Bulent Ecevit, who was asked to form a new government Wednesday, is  a former prime minister best remembered for ordering an invasion of  Cyprus in 1974 that made him an overnight hero at home.
The invasion,  after a short-lived coup by supporters of union with Greece, has led  to the division of the island.
Throughout the years, Ecevit, 73, has  remained a strong defender of the cause of the Turkish Cypriots ``As  long as Turkey lives, we won't allow the oppression and subordination  of Turkish Cypriots at the hands of Greek Cypriots,'' he said in July  1997 during the 23rd anniversary celebrations of the invasion.
Ecevit,  who was prime minister three times since 1974, has over the years  shed some of the socialist idealism he was known for in the 70s.
During  his tenure as deputy prime minister in a 17-month government that  was toppled last week over a corruption scandal, he gave his backing  to the liberal policies of the center-right-led coalition.
He often  said he was carrying out a duty to bring a stable government and spare  Turkey from crisis - a reference to tensions between a previous Islamic-led  government and the secular military.
Though never a Marxist, Ecevit  was in his early years viewed with suspicion by big business for espousing  socialism based on heavy government social benefits and a strong role  for the state sector in the economy.
Recently, however, he has helped  the government keep on good terms with the IMF, which ordered a strict  curb on public spending, and approved a number of state sell-offs.
Under his leadership in the 70's, ties with the United States were  tense.
He has also expressed concern over a U.S.-led multinational  force based in Turkey that monitors a no-fly zone over Kurdish-controlled  northern Iraq.
He argues it it is helping create a Kurdish state.
His frequent visits to Iraq to meet with President Saddam Hussein  have in turn raised suspicion in Washington.
Despite a short alliance  with an Islamic party in 1974, he is a staunch defender of Turkey's  secular traditions and pushed for a crackdown on Islamic radicalism.
Ecevit was born in Istanbul in 1925, to an intellectual family and  studied literature at a prestigious American-run high school.
He has  taken some courses at Harvard University.
A former journalist, he  entered politics in 1957, rising to the leadership of the Republican  People's Party in 1972, becoming prime minister in 1974, briefly in  1977 and again in 1978-79.
He was barred from politics in the years  that followed a 1980 military coup.
He was imprisoned three times  for carrying on with political activities despite the ban, mainly  through his wife of 51 years, Rahsan, who formed the Democratic Left  Party in 1985 and led it until a democratic reform in 1987 allowed  Ecevit back into politics.
In corruption-tainted Turkish politics,  he remains known as the leader with the cleanest slate.
Not even his  alliance with Yilmaz who was ousted for alleged ties to the mob and  rigging the privatization of a bank, tarnished his image.
Premier-designate Bulent Ecevit said Thursday he would persist in  the difficult task of convincing a key party leader to join forces  in a secular coalition.
Ecevit, who was asked to form a new government  Wednesday, desperately needs the support of the 99 deputies of ex-premier  Tansu Ciller's center-right party.
Ecevit, a veteran leftist, already  has the support of another center-right party led by Mesut Yilmaz,  whose government collapsed last week under the weight of a mafia scandal.
Mrs. Ciller has not said if she would back an Ecevit-led government  and her long-standing rivalry with Yilmaz makes Ecevit's job of coalition-building  difficult.
``I don't give up that easily, neither do I lose hope that  easily,'' Ecevit told his parliamentary group Thursday.
Mrs. Ciller  could lose grassroot support if she stands in the way of a new government,  political columnist Ertugrul Ozkok wrote Thursday in daily Hurriyet.
``This could put her at odds with her classic support base.''
Ecevit  was expected to meet with Yilmaz on Thursday, and other party leaders  Friday.
Turkey's secular parties are under pressure to join forces  to keep the Islamic Virtue Party out of power.
Virtue is the largest  party in Parliament, but the all-powerful military is fiercely opposed  to an Islamic-led government.
The chances for a new, strictly secular government in Turkey faded  Wednesday when a potential coalition partner insisted on giving the  Islamic party a share of power.
The military, self-appointed guardians  of Turkey's secular system, is adamantly opposed to the inclusion  of Islamic Virtue, the largest party in parliament.
Premier-designate  Bulent Ecevit needs Turkey's two-center right parties to hammer together  a secular coalition, but Tansu Ciller, the ex-premier who commands  99 votes in parliament, rebuffed him Wednesday.
Ecevit already has  the support of her arch-rival, outgoing Premier Mesut Yilmaz, head  of the other center-right party.
But Mrs. Ciller said Wednesday she  would not join forces with Yilmaz, whose government collapsed Nov.
25 over a mafia scandal.
Instead, she reiterated her demand for a  government that would include Virtue.
``We do not oppose Mr. Ecevit's  premiership.
We will support him, but only if all parties represented  in Parliament are included,'' Mrs. Ciller said.
It was not clear what  Ecevit's next move would be.
He might try to form a fragile minority  coalition.
He might also admit defeat and return the task of forming  the government to President Suleyman Demirel.
Demirel could then choose  any member of parliament to head the government until elections in  April.
After failing to bring together political rivals in a coalition, Premier-designate  Bulent Ecevit announced Saturday that he was returning his mandate  to the Turkish president.
In a statement reported by the Anatolia  news agency, Ecevit said he would see President Suleyman Demirel Monday  morning.
Ecevit, a veteran leftist, was called on to form a cabinet  over two weeks ago after Mesut Yilmaz' coalition government collapsed  in a no-confidence vote in Parliament.
Deputies accused Yilmaz, who  has since been serving as acting premier, of entertaining ties with  the mob and tampering with the sale of a state bank.
Refusing any  alliance with the pro-Islamic Virtue Party, Turkey's largest party  in Parliament, Ecevit was unable to create a political alliance strong  enough to survive a confidence vote in the deeply divided legislature.
Ecevit tried in vain to form a coalition government with two rival  center-right wing parties -- one led by Yilmaz, the other by former  Prime Minister Tansu Ciller.
Ecevut's alternate efforts to make a  minority coalition with outside backing for his Democratic Left Party  from Parliament also failed.
Demirel will now have to either ask someone  else to try to form a government or wait until Jan. 10, when the constitution  allows him to appoint a caretaker cabinet to lead the country to parliamentary  elections, now scheduled for April.
Such a cabinet would not have  to face a confidence vote.
Or Demirel could choose to leave the current  caretaker government, headed by Yilmaz, in power until the elections.
President Suleyman Demirel appeared likely to turn to some widely  trusted lawmaker to form Turkey's next government, after a veteran  politician abandoned efforts Monday to persuade bickering political  leaders to support him in a pro-secular coalition.
Bulent Ecevit of  the Democratic Left Party failed in a 3-week-old attempt to form a  government that could command a majority of votes in Parliament.
``It  is now clear that no party leader can form a government that can win  a vote of confidence,'' former Premier Mesut Yilmaz said after talks  with Demirel.
``We have told the president that we will not hamper  the appointment of a deputy of Parliament.''
With party leaders unable  to overcome differences, the new premier-designate would most probably  be affiliated to a party but be trusted enough by other parties to  follow an independent line.
Parliament Speaker Hikmet Cetin has been  suggested as a likely candidate.
The new appointment would be made  within days, Yilmaz told reporters.
Demirel consulted Turkey's party  leaders immediately after Ecevit gave up.
Most declared themselves  in favor of a government led by a lawmaker.
Only center-right leader  Tansu Ciller said she wanted a government led by a party leader, and  made clear she was willing to take on the task.
Turkey's parliament  is split by longstanding animosity between its center-left and center-right  parties.
Yilmaz led the last government, which collapsed in November  amid allegations he had ties to organized crime and interfered with  the sale of a state bank.
By tradition, Demirel should then have asked  the leader of Parliament's largest party to form a new government.
But Demirel broke with custom to keep the Islamic-oriented Virtue  Party from power.
Turkey's staunchly secular military opposes the  return of an Islamic-led government.
Modern Turkey has had only one  Islamic-led government, formed after 1995 elections, and the military  pressured it from power for failing to stick to the country's secular  traditions.
Ecevit refused even to consult with the leader of the  Virtue Party during his efforts to form a government.
Turkey's latest premier-designate got the backing of two key secular  parties Monday in his efforts to form a broad-based, coalition government,  on condition that his government stick to Turkey's secular principles.
The Islamic-oriented Virtue Party, however, withheld immediate support  for Yalim Erez.
News reports said Virtue was holding out for a number  of Cabinet seats that reflected its standing as the largest party  in parliament.
``We are neither saying `yes' nor saying `no' at this  point,'' Virtue leader Recai Kutan said.
Erez denied that the two  had discussed Cabinet posts.
Erez, an independent lawmaker, is trying  to form a coalition government that would include Cabinet members  from several parties, including Virtue.
The coalition would run the  country only until parliamentary elections set for April.
Erez took  over efforts to form a government last week after veteran leftist  Bulent Ecevit gave up, unable to convince Turkey's bickering center-left  and center-right parties to join him in a coalition that excluded  the Islamic-oriented party.
Erez opened talks with various party leaders  on Monday.
He got support from center-right leader Mesut Yilmaz, who  said his party supported Erez as long as he had Ecevit's backing.
``As long as our sensitivity toward the secular, democratic regime  is taken into account, we will do our best to help form the new government  and ensure it gets a vote of confidence,'' Ecevit said after his own  talks with Erez.
Turkey's strongly secular military is opposed to  any deal that would bring Virtue to power.
It pressured Virtue's predecessor,  the Welfare Party, out of power last year.
Erez is supposed to talk  Tuesday to center-right Tansu Ciller and to Deniz Baykal, who leads  a center-left party.
``I am more and more optimistic after every meeting,''  Erez told reporters after meeting with the party leaders.
Turkey has  been trying to form a new government since a coalition government  led by Yilmaz collapsed last month over allegations that he rigged  the sale of a bank.
Yilmaz is now acting premier.
A week after the Turkish government fell in a corruption scandal,  President Suleyman Demirel on Wednesday asked a veteran left-wing  politician known for his personal honesty, Bulent Ecevit, to form  a new government.
Ecevit, who served as prime minister three times  in the 1970s, said he would immediately begin working to fashion a  government that could command a majority in the faction-ridden Parliament.
He also suggested that although Parliament has set April 18 as the  date for a new election, he might seek to remain in power for a longer  period.
``It is wrong to see this government as simply an election  government,'' he said.
``There are problems that will not wait until  an election.''
Military commanders, who hold ultimate power in Turkey,  have quietly told senior political figures, including Demirel, that  they do not want a quick election.
They fear it will produce a Parliament  just as divided as the present one, perhaps with the Islamic-oriented  Virtue Party as the largest bloc.
The commanders are also hoping to  exclude two of the country's leading politicians, outgoing Prime Minister  Mesut Yilmaz and former Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, neither of whom  they trust, from posts in the new government.
Ecevit must now try  to build a government that includes their center-right parties but  not them as individuals.
In a meeting this week the country's senior  policy-making body, the National Security Council, in which military  officers have a strong say, set three priorities for the coming months.
It said that whatever government emerges from forthcoming negotiations  should dedicate itself to fighting religious fundamentalism, Kurdish  nationalism and criminal gangs that have infiltrated the state apparatus.
Among Ecevit's immediate challenges will be to resolve a political  crisis with Italy that broke out last month when the Kurdish rebel  leader Abdullah Ocalan was arrested in Rome and then asked for political  asylum there.
Turkey wants Ocalan sent here for trial, but Italy says  it cannot extradite him as long as Turkey retains the death penalty.
Ecevit (pronounced EH-che-vit) is among the few senior Turkish politicians  who favors the abolition of capital punishment.
Together with Demirel,  Ecevit is often cited by Turks who complain about the continued dominance  of a geriatric political elite here.
He is 73 and has been in politics  for most of his adult life.
Early in his career Ecevit emerged as  a spokesman for Turkey's downtrodden masses.
Perhaps more than any  other figure, he legitimized social democratic ideology in a climate  where leftist sympathies were often considered subversive.
At the  same time, however, he has shown himself to be a fierce nationalist.
He was prime minister when Turkey sent troops to occupy northern Cyprus  in 1974 and is still considered a hard-liner on Cyprus.
He is also  uncompromising in his opposition to Kurdish nationalism.
During his  terms as prime minister in the 1970s, Ecevit successfully undermined  efforts to move Turkey toward membership in the European Union, then  called the European Economic Community.
He considered it an instrument  of capitalist exploitation.
Ecevit has also disturbed the United States  by flirting with anti-Western ideologies.
In the early 1990s, during  an interval when he worked as a journalist, he traveled to Iraq and  wrote a series of articles favorable to Saddam Hussein.
He recently  called for better relations between Turkey and Iraq, and maintains  some of the anti-imperialist positions and suspicion of capitalism  that he developed in the 1960s.
The Democratic Socialist Party, which  Ecevit heads, is a closely held family fiefdom.
He and his wife carefully  screen applicants for membership and veto those whose personal loyalty  to Ecevit is suspect.
``During his terms as prime minister in the  '70s, Ecevit did not appear to be a consensus builder,'' said Ilter  Turan, a professor of political science at Bilgi University in Istanbul.
``It seems that nowadays he is more accommodating, so from that perspective  he may not be bad choice.''
``On many issues that Turkish society  is encountering now, he represents an orientation which does not seem  to be totally in tune with the times,'' Turan said.
``That would include  his position on issues like privatization, integrating Turkey more  fully into the international system, and the devolution of central  authority.
He has failed to grasp where the world is heading.
He looks  at and analyzes the world in categories that are no longer useful  or appropriate.''
Almost alone among Turkish politicians, Ecevit lives  modestly and has avoided any hint of personal or financial scandal.
He speaks fluent English, and his reading tastes run to poetry and  intellectual journals such as The New York Review of Books.
He has  translated the works of T.S. Eliot into Turkish and published several  volumes of his own poems.
Dr. Barnett Slepian, the mainstay of Buffalo's only abortion clinic, was slain as he stood at his kitchen window.
Slepian has been described as a fatalist who stubbornly adhered to doing what he thought right.
The FBI is looking for James Kopp for questioning as a material witness in the slaying.
Kopp has long been identified as a major voice in the anti-abortion movement.
Attorney General Reno will investigate if the slaying is part of a nation-wide plot.
In Canada, authorities are worried that new violence could erupt as Remembrance Day approaches.
Anti-abortion pamphlets have been delivered to a Canadian newspaper, possibly by Kopp.
Abortion clinics continue to be targeted by anti-abortion groups such as Operation Rescue, Lambs of Christ, and Army of God.
Opposition ranges from silent vigils to vocal and physical intimidation, and even murder.
Dr. Bart Shepian of Buffalo's only abortion clinic was murdered in his home.
Police in the US and Canada are looking for James Kopp, a known abortion opponent, as a material witness in that murder.
The clinics serve poor, young, and uneducated women since the well-to-do use their established providers.
AG Janet Reno has named a task force to find out if the Slepian murder, the third in five years, is part of an organized campaign of violence.
The primary doctor at the last abortion clinic in Buffalo, NY, was shot and killed.
Dr. Slepian, a stubborn man, dedicated to women's care, and an unlikely martyr.
It's the 7th such death, and the 4th similar attack.
James Kopp is sought as a material witness.
The anti-abortion movement has local and itinerate members.
Their activities go from prayers and talking to confrontations, threats and violence.
After this killing, the FBI resumed a search for an anti-abortion conspiracy.
Since the first few years after Roe v Wade, the number of abortions has declined, as has the number of clinics and doctors providing the procedure, especially for poorer women.
On Oct. 23, 1998, a sniper killed Dr. Barnet Slepian, a mainstay in the last abortion clinic in the Buffalo area and one of only a few doctors performing the procedure in the face of protesters and threats.
Many of the protesters are itinerants like Rev. Norman Weslin, founder of the anti-abortion group Lambs of Christ, who travel about spreading their message and shutting down clinics.
Another itinerant demonstrator, James Charles Kopp, is wanted by the FBI as a material witness in the Slepian murder.
In addition to anti-abortion violence, a shortage of doctors who are trained and willing to do the procedures imperil their widespread availability.
While veterans and civic leaders devote Wednesday's national holiday  to honoring fallen soldiers, Remembrance Day has become a chilling  vigil for Canadians in the front lines of the abortion-rights movement.
There is immediate fear, because an anti-abortion gunman is believed  to be at large.
And there is long-term anxiety, because even in this  country where abortions are legal and publicly funded, women may find  access diminishing.
There is speculation the sniper's timing is linked  to Remembrance Day because some anti-abortion activists use the day  to commemorate aborted fetuses.
Three times since 1994, a sniper has  used this time of year to fire into the home of a Canadian doctor  who performs abortion, each time wounding the target.
The attacks  Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia.
U.S. and Canadian investigators now believe those attacks were linked  to two shootings of abortion-providing doctors in upstate New York,  including the Oct. 23 slaying of Dr. Barnett Slepian at his home near  Buffalo.
An American anti-abortion activist, James Kopp, is wanted  for questioning about the shootings.
Police say they don't know which  side of the border he is on, fueling uneasiness at clinics and hospitals  throughout Canada.
``You must realize Canada has the largest undefended  border in the world,'' said Keith McCaskill, a police inspector in  Winnipeg, Manitoba, and spokesman for the investigation.
Many women's  clinics have tightened security, and doctors who provide abortions  have been urged to take precautions.
``I would suggest they be extremely  aware of their day-to-day goings on, whether during their business  day or after hours,'' said Toronto Detective Rick Stubbings.
Across  Canada, there have been reports of obstetrician-gynecologists modifying  their practices or deciding to stop performing abortions.
Some wear  bulletproof vests and hang sheets over windows of their homes.
Abortion-rights  groups say most doctors are not backing down.
``There's a great deal  of sadness,'' said Susan Fox, director of a clinic in Edmonton, Alberta,  that provides abortions.
``But there's also a feeling of determination  that we won't be deterred or scared by these actions.''
Marilyn Wilson,  executive director of the Canadian Abortion Rights Action League,  sees a long-term threat because fear of violence may intimidate young  doctors from entering the field.
``There are almost no doctors who  have stopped performing these procedures, even under the current reign  of terror,'' she said.
``But young doctors with families wouldn't  necessarily want to do this.
They may not be willing to put their  lives at risk.''
The abortion debate is only one of several factors  contributing to a shortage of obstetrician-gynecologists in Canada.
The national society that oversees the speciality says there are about  1,400 doctors in the field, a shortfall of 600, and most are in their  50s or 60s.
The society says long hours and limits on fees paid by  the public health-care system are causing burnout and deterring medical  school graduates as they choose a specialty.
Another problem is that  few Canadian medical schools offer training in abortion.
Women in  Canada's big cities generally have adequate access to abortions.
Those  in rural areas often face long journeys, and the province of Prince  Edward Island prohibits abortions at its six hospitals, forcing women  there to travel to New Brunswick or Nova Scotia.
Abortion-rights groups  say the situation would improve if the RU-486 abortion pill were available  in Canada.
No drug company has applied for permission to market the  pill, either fearing boycotts or doubting its profitability.
The government  has been urged to make a public appeal to drug companies, but the  health department says this can't be done.
``It would be a conflict  of interest,'' said Bonnie Fox-McIntyre, a department spokeswoman.
``As a regulator we have to stay at arm's length, so we can judge  an application impartially.''
Abortion was illegal in Canada until  1988.
Now there is no abortion law of any sort, about 100,000 abortions  are performed annually, and polls indicate roughly three-quarters  of Canadians favor pro-choice policies.
Yet public support doesn't  spare doctors from fear.
Dr. Henry Morgentaler, who led efforts to  overturn the old abortion law and whose Toronto clinic was bombed  in 1993, says he and his colleagues are sacrificing personal freedom  as they reluctantly increase security measures.
``Unfortunately, doctors  who are committed to providing these services will have to accept  a certain diminishment of their enjoyment of life,'' he said.
The slaying of Dr. Barnett Slepian in his home last week eliminated  the mainstay of the only abortion clinic here, but it has not eliminated  women's access to abortion.
That is because the availability of abortion  in the Buffalo area, as in much of the United States, is a complex  reality, one affected by class and education, medical training and  the personal convictions of individual doctors.
Knowledgeable middle-class  and affluent women here who find themselves with an unwanted pregnancy  can usually obtain an abortion from their private gynecologists, or  if a gynecologist has a personal objection to the procedure, through  a referral to a colleague.
Women who are poor, young or uneducated  and have no such regular relationships with doctors have to rely on  specialized clinics like the one Slepian worked in, or on hospitals.
for whom unplanned pregnancies are far more common  than for prosperous women _ that faces a shrinking universe of possibilities  as a result of the fear set off by Slepian's killing and the slayings  of five other doctors and clinic workers since 1993, medical experts  said.
``If you're well off and well connected, you can get your abortion,''  said Dr. Stephen Wear, co-director of the center for clinical ethics  at the University of Buffalo, which trains doctors for the Buffalo  area's hospitals.
``For everybody else, it's less and less available.''
The number of abortions in the United States has been declining steadily  since the first years after the Supreme Court's Roe vs. Wade decision  legalized abortion in 1973, according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute,  which studies reproductive issues.
They now number roughly 1.5 million  a year, according to reports by Guttmacher, or 1.4 million, according  to the National Right to Life Committee, the nation's largest anti-abortion  group, which calculates its estimate partly from the Guttmacher figures.
The number of providers who identify themselves as performing abortions  as part of their practice is diminishing as well.
A 1994 Guttmacher  study, the last one published, found that the number had decreased  18 percent between 1982 and 1992, to 2,380 from 2,908.
Moreover, the  study said, only 12 percent of the nation's residency programs routinely  offer training in abortions during the first trimester, though many  do offer elective courses.
Laura Echevarria, director of media relations  for the National Right to Life Committee, contends, however, that  most teaching hospitals do train gynecologists in procedures for treating  miscarriages that are similar to those used for performing abortions.
Only in cosmopolitan and comparatively liberal cities like New York  does the availability of abortions continue at a steady level, experts  say, though even in these locales there is concern about the decreasing  number of young doctors who emerge from residencies fully trained  in performing abortions.
The Guttmacher Institute, which keeps the  nation's most precise statistics, said that in 1992, the last year  for which it has figures, there were 142,410 abortions in New York  that were done by just 151 providers, including 61 hospitals and 44  clinics.
Still, that provider figure greatly understates the number  of private doctors who perform them in their offices, medical experts  say.
``Many obstetricians and gynecologists in Manhattan provide abortions  as part of their palette of services, and have for many years,'' said  Dr. Richard Hausknecht, the medical director of Planned Parenthood.
``Rich and middle-class women have always had access to abortions,  and they always will.''
The major threat to availability in the city  is less a result of anti-abortion violence than of medical training.
``The bottom line is that we're facing an impending shortage of physicians  who are adequately trained and willing to do the procedures,'' said  Dr. John Choate, chairman of the New York State division of the American  College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.
But the lack of training  programs is also a result of political pressures on hospitals and  universities by antagonists of abortion and the same climate of fear.
``Physicians tend to lie low,'' Choate said.
``They don't publicize  the fact that they do them.
If they do them, they do it quietly out  of fear for their practice and for their lives.''
One development  on the horizon that is expected to change the outlook for abortions  substantially is final federal approval, expected next year, of the  RU-486 pill, the drug that ends an early pregnancy without the need  for surgery.
When the pill was introduced in France and in Edinburgh,  Scotland, Hausknecht said, the number of surgical abortions plummeted.
James Kopp, the man the FBI is seeking as a material witness in the  sniper slaying of Dr. Barnett Slepian, is known to abortion rights  leaders as an aggressive anti-abortion protester, and law enforcement  officials say he has been arrested several times in demonstrations  at abortion clinics.
The portrait that emerges of Kopp, 44, from police  records, studies by researchers on right-wing movements, newspaper  accounts of protests, and abortion rights advocates, is that of an  itinerant protester, moving about the country in a series of increasingly  abrasive protests at abortion clinics.
Federal law enforcement officials  say he is not currently a suspect in the Slepian shooting, and there  was no indication Wednesday that he had been arrested for any violent  acts.
At several abortion protests, he was charged with trespassing  or resisting arrest, according to news accounts.
One of his arrests  was in Atlanta during Operation Rescue's huge anti-abortion protests  there in 1988.
While he was in an Atlanta jail, Kopp was given the  nickname Atomic Dog, which investigators contend links him to the  violent fringe of the anti-abortion movement, responsible for a series  of bombings and arsons and seven murders of abortion providers like  Slepian over the last five years.
Responsibility for some of the violence  like the bombing of an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Ala., earlier  this year, in which an off-duty policeman was killed _ has been claimed  in notes signed by a shadowy ``Army of God.''
An underground manual  issued in the name of the Army of God, which describes methods for  attacking abortion clinics, including how to make homemade C-4 plastic  explosives, begins with a tribute, by nickname, of a clandestine band  pledged to stop abortions.
The first name under this ``Special Thanks''  section is Atomic Dog.
The Atlanta police, after searching the hundreds  of arrest records of the protesters from the summer of 1988, confirmed  Wednesday night that the date of birth and Social Security number  of the James Kopp arrested then matched those given out Wednesday  by the FBI task force in Buffalo investigating the murder of Slepian,  who was gunned down through the window if his home in suburban Amherst  on Oct. 23.
At the nondescript frame house in St. Albans, Vt., that  the FBI gave as Kopp's last known address, the current resident, who  gave his name only as E. Kenny, 20, a shipping clerk, remembered Kopp  well.
He lived there for part of 1990 as the guest of Kenny's parents,  who were active in the anti-abortion movement, among a group of protesters  who tried to shut down two abortion clinics in Burlington in stubborn  demonstrations that year.
Kenny remembered Kopp as a ``really nice  guy,'' who did chores around the place but paid no rent to the parents.
He sometimes made wooden toys or played video games with Kenny, then  a child.
``But the focus of his life was the anti-abortion movement,''  Kenny recalled.
``He was known among these people as Atomic Dog.
It  wasn't like a name that he had to go to the store or something.
But  if you knew anything about him, that's what you called him.''
Roughly  95 people were arrested during the protests, according to newspaper  accounts at the time.
``There were many, many arrests,'' recalled  Allie Stickney, the president of Planned Parenthood of Northern New  England.
``It was very big for Vermont.
There were Kryptonite locks  and leaflets from the Army of God and the Lambs of Christ.
It was  clearly a highly organized blockade.''
According to newspaper accounts,  Kopp was arrested outside a clinic in Levittown, Long Island, in 1991.
The protests in Atlanta in 1998 appeared to be a turning point for  a hard-core group of protesters.
The Atlanta police cracked down hard  and carted hundreds of demonstrators off to an isolated prison dormitory  the called ``the farm.''
Operation Rescue had mounted a series of  blockades to close down abortion clinics in New York and Philadelphia  that spring.
Atlanta was their high point, but in the face of the  tough arrest policy, the movement faltered, split apart and stalled.
``It was a traumatic, life-changing experience,'' said Frederick Clarkson,  author of ``Eternal Hostility,'' a book on the anti-abortion movement,  adding that by 1993 with the shooting of Dr. David Gunn, an abortion  provider in Florida, some of those in the Atlanta jail became the  nucleus of a group signing a ``justifiable homicide'' statement that  declared that the use of force was warranted to ``defend the life  of an unborn child.''
Federal authorities investigating the murder of a Buffalo-area obstetrician  who performed abortions have identified a Vermont man as a material  witness to the sniper attack last month and issued a warrant for his  arrest Wednesday to bring him in for questioning.
The man was identified  as James Charles Kopp, 44, whose last known address was in St. Albans,  Vt.
His whereabouts are not known, investigators said.
Investigators  said Kopp's car was seen near the Amherst, N.Y., home of Dr. Barnett  Slepian in the weeks before the doctor, whose work at an abortion  clinic had long made him a target of harassment, was killed.
Kopp,  according to police records and abortion rights groups, has often  moved about the country in a series of protests at abortion clinics,  and has been linked to an underground manual that describes methods  of killing or maiming doctors who perform abortions.
Denise O'Donnell,  the U.S. attorney for the western district of New York, said Kopp  was not considered a suspect at this time but was believed to have  information material to the case.
She declined to give details on  what evidence was being sought from Kopp, describing it only as information  that is contained in a sealed affidavit whose disclosure would compromise  the ongoing investigation.
Ms. O'Donnell said that federal law allowed  for an arrest warrant for a material witness when a person has information  that is important to a case.
``If Kopp is found, he would be arrested,  brought to Buffalo and ordered to provide the required evidence,''  Ms. O'Donnell said.
``Then, most likely, the individual would be released.''
Slepian, 52, was shot by a sniper firing from outside his home on  Oct. 23, shortly after returning from an evening service at his synagogue.
He was standing in his kitchen with his wife and one of his four sons  when the bullet crashed through a back window.
He died two hours later.
Law enforcement officials said Wednesday's announcement of the material  witness warrant was in part an attempt to underscore the potential  danger of anti-abortion violence in advance of Remembrance Day, a  Canadian holiday that falls on Nov. 11 and that the authorities have  associated with some anti-abortion crimes.
At the same time, the Justice  Department and the FBI were trying to find ways to step up the federal  response to violence at abortion clinics in the aftermath of the Slepian  killing.
The officials said that Attorney General Janet Reno would  soon announce that the Justice Department, aiming to heighten the  visibility of the federal role in cases that cross state and local  jurisdictional boundaries, would revive a national investigative effort  focused on abortion clinic violence.
Ms. Reno and senior FBI officials,  including Robert Bryant, the deputy FBI director, have met with physician  and abortion rights groups in recent days to discuss ways to enhance  federal investigative efforts and coordination with local agencies.
Federal authorities first organized an abortion clinic task force  in 1995 after the killing of a Florida doctor.
The unit, which was  charged with investigating whether a national conspiracy existed,  spent nearly two years studying abortion clinic violence.
The unit  disbanded without uncovering a national conspiracy.
Law enforcement  officials said that the unit's operation did help reduce violence  at abortion clinics and that, in part, the decision to re-establish  it was prompted by Ms. Reno's desire to send a renewed message to  anti-abortion extremists that the government would aggressively investigate  these crimes.
Slepian's murder fit the pattern of four earlier sniper  attacks on abortion doctors in Canada and western New York, dating  from 1994.
None of the attacks have been solved.
Bernard Tolbert,  special agent in charge of the FBI in Buffalo, said at a news conference  here Wednesday that investigators had not determined whether there  is a link between the five killings.
``There's a possibility they  could be linked, but certainly no information,'' he said.
Tolbert  gave little information about the subject of the material-witness  warrant, except to say that Kopp's black 1987 Chevrolet Cavalier,  with the Vermont license plate BPE216, was seen near Slepian's home  beginning several weeks before the murder.
``We don't have any idea  of where he is,'' Tolbert said of Kopp.
``We are looking for him every  place we can, every place he might be.''
A photograph of Kopp taken  in January 1997 has been distributed to law enforcement agencies around  the United States and Canada.
The National Abortion Federation has  sent out an advisory to clinics around the country about the search  for Kopp, said Melinda DuBois, assistant director of Womenservices,  the clinic where Slepian worked.
She said naming Kopp a material witness  in the case had not brought relief to the nurses and other workers  at the clinic.
``I don't think it makes me or anyone else at the clinic  feel differently,'' she said.
``I don't want anybody to relax and  say, `Oh God, they got the guy.'
That's easy to happen.
I still want  people to be very vigilant.''
The clinic is the last in the Buffalo  area that is performing abortions.
Slepian was one of only a handful  of doctors in Buffalo who were still willing to perform the procedure  in the face of pickets, protesters and threats.
Since his death, doctors  from outside Buffalo have come to the clinic to continue providing  abortion services.
In July 1988, when Randall Terry drove through the night from his  home in Binghamton, N.Y., to Atlanta to start the series of anti-abortion  protests that would finally put his new hard-line group, Operation  Rescue, onto America's front pages, James Charles Kopp was in the  van riding alongside him, according to former leaders of Operation  Rescue who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
And, those people  say, when Terry was arrested on the first day of Operation Rescue's  ``Siege of Atlanta,'' Kopp followed him into jail.
Along with more  than one hundred other Operation Rescue members, according to some  people who were there, Kopp remained in jail for 40 days and adhered  to Terry's orders not to give a real name to the police or courts.
After his release, Kopp returned to Operation Rescue's Binghamton  headquarters, and was there working alongside Terry as the group's  power and influence in the anti-abortion movement surged in late 1988  and 1989, according to the former leaders of Operation Rescue.
Now,  Kopp is being sought by federal and local law enforcement authorities  for questioning as a material witness in the murder of an obstetrician  who performed abortions in the Buffalo region.
The authorities also  say he may have information that will help solve four other sniper  attacks on doctors who performed abortions in Canada and upstate New  York.
Some abortion-rights groups are seizing on Kopp's role in Operation  Rescue to raise new questions about the connections between the recent  anti-abortion violence and the hard-line anti-abortion protest groups  that burst onto the national scene in the late 1980s.
For years, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department have looked  in vain for evidence to determine whether a national conspiracy might  be behind a series of clinic bombings and shootings of doctors and  other clinic staff members that began in the early 1990s.
A federal  grand jury in Alexandria, Va., that looked into conspiracy allegations  was ultimately disbanded without finding a national underground.
But  some federal law enforcement officials say they hope that Kopp may  help provide such a link.
In fact, the announcement that law enforcement  officials are looking for him has been made as Attorney General Janet  Reno has prepared to revive an interagency task force to look once  again for possible conspiracies behind anti-abortion crimes.
Federal  law enforcement officials and the authorities say Kopp is not now  a suspect in the sniper attack on Oct. 23 that killed Dr. Barnett  A. Slepian near Buffalo.
But they say Kopp's car was seen near Slepian's  home in Amherst, N.Y. in the weeks before the doctor was shot.
One  day after issuing a warrant for Kopp's arrest as a material witness,  law enforcement officials from at least 10 agencies spanning the United  States and Canadian border still had not located Kopp Thursday.
But  law enforcement officials said they were pursuing many tips, including  about 400 that have poured into the FBI's information line: (800)  281-1184.
The police have gone through photographs of abortion protesters  and clinic workers in Buffalo and around the country, and they are  also reviewing hundreds of hours of videotapes of demonstrations in  search of Kopp's face.
At this point, officials consider the shooting  of Slepian to be connected to three attacks in Canada and one in Rochester  on doctors who provide abortions.
The five attacks, all since 1994,  called  Remembrance Day in Canada _ a holiday that has become important to  anti-abortion activists.
But the attacks were spread over four years  and 3,000 miles, from Vancouver, British Columbia, to Buffalo.
As  is the case with many early veterans of Operation Rescue, Kopp was  transformed into a hard-core anti-abortion militant in jail in Atlanta  in 1988, according to many people who were in jail with him who insisted  on anonymity.
Rosina Lotempio was standing outside abortion clinics here before  Operation Rescue stormed into town in 1992 for the rowdy Spring of  Life rallies, in which hundreds were arrested.
She was there before  Lambs of Christ demonstrators came to town in 1993.
She was on the  sidewalk outside Buffalo GYN Womenservices the morning of Oct. 23,  about 12 hours before Barnett Slepian, the clinic doctor, was fatally  shot in his home.
And she was there Friday, brown rosary beads in  her hands, a small gold cross on a chain around her neck, quietly  praying for abortions to stop.
``I'm heartbroken when I have to come  here,'' Mrs. Lotempio, 58, said as she stood in the cold, wearing  small black earmuffs and a white turtleneck adorned with a tiny silver  pin of baby feet.
``It's very difficult out here; I depend on God,''  she said, after praying for several moments to decide whether to talk  to a reporter.
The bombings, the fiery rhetoric of abortion opponents  and the posters of bloody fetuses may capture the attention of the  news media, but people like Mrs. Lotempio are the foot soldiers in  the abortion battle.
They call themselves street counselors and come  to the clinic whenever they believe abortions are being performed.
They pray and they talk to women, hoping to change their minds.
Some  scream profanities.
Others, like Mrs. Lotempio, denounce not only  the violence against doctors and clinics, but also the blocking of  doors and the shouting of ugly epithets at clinic workers and patients.
For the approximately 80 abortion opponents here, their protest is  more like a job than a political activity.
There is a schedule.
People  count on them to show up.
Mrs. Lotempio, a mother of three and grandmother  of six, connects her involvement to a conversation in the 1970s in  which she helped a friend decide to abort an unwanted pregnancy.
Two  decades later, she was haunted by her own question: whether the fetus  was male or female.
``I just felt horrible and I felt guilty,'' she  said, tears in her eyes.
``I thought that if I was at the clinic doing  something, I could make up for that baby's life.''
During Mrs. Lotempio's  8 a.m.-to-10 a.m. shift Friday, about a dozen people circled the area  in front of the Buffalo clinic, saying the ``Hail Mary.''
Others take  her spot on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.
She returns on Saturdays, when  up to 40 people crowd the sidewalk.
Similar bands of protesters march  in front of abortion clinics throughout the United States, and local  protesters are often joined by bands of people who roam the country.
At the clinic on Main Street, north of downtown Buffalo, there is  an odd sense of community.
Local protesters greet Dick, the security  abortion-rights  volunteers who escort patients in and out of the clinic _ in the supermarket  or on the soccer field.
Robert Behn, one of the protest leaders, even  spent two hours talking about abortion over breakfast last year with  Slepian.
And several said they cried when they heard of Slepian's  death.
Most of the protesters, including Mrs. Lotempio, were among  the thousands of people arrested here in 1992, the height of anti-abortion  activity in Buffalo.
But if Operation Rescue returns, as planned,  for a Spring of Life reunion in April, Mrs. Lotempio said, she will  not be there.
Instead, she plans to stay in church and pray, to avoid  the militancy she says she finds uncomfortable.
Glenn Murray, a lawyer  for Womenservices clinic, said: ``When people from out of town show  up, that is when we feel the most danger.
The local people are a known  quantity.
We know most of the local people by name.''
Buffalo has  been among a handful of hot spots for abortion protesters for the  last decade.
It is a heavily Catholic city where thousands of protesters  from around the country demonstrated for two weeks in 1992.
They failed  to close abortion clinics, but 500 people were arrested in rallies  that snarled traffic and drew national headlines.
Those rallies, as  well as earlier protests and continuing sidewalk vigils, have had  an impact, people on both sides of the abortion issue say.
The number  of clinics performing abortions in the Buffalo area has dropped to  one from three.
And after Slepian's death and the retirement this  week of another doctor, there are only two doctors in the area for  whom abortions form a significant part of their practices.
The daily  demonstrators count this as progress.
But their perch outside the  clinic means they witness far more of what they believe are murders  than what they call rescues.
About 30 women a day might go into the  clinic.
After eight years, Mrs. Lotempio can count eight women who  changed their minds and did not get abortions while she was at the  clinic.
Inside the clinic, the protests just make a hard job harder,  many clinic workers say.
While some demonstrators simply repeat the  rosary, other protesters call out to patients as they drive into the  parking lot behind the building, or walk up to the fortresslike front.
They ask questions like ``Do you know what your baby looks like?''
or ``Is it a boy or a girl?''
Sometimes they accuse people of murder  and torture and sin, or threaten them with damnation.
Federal law  bars protesters from coming within 15 feet of the clinic entrances,  and from leaning signs against its walls.
Some push the limits, frustrating  clinic workers and guards.
The rules protect people from physical  harassment, but because of the distance, they turn what could be quiet  conversations into catcalls and taunts.
When a patient goes into the  clinic, the protesters ``take on a different persona,'' said Melinda  DuBois, director of the Buffalo clinic.
``They scream and yell and  call us names.
They lie.
Some days we're immune to it, but other days  it's just too much.''
Linda Palm, 51, marching at the clinic on Friday,  said she identified with the clinic patients.
When she was 23, she  said, she struggled with the difficulties of being unmarried and pregnant  herself, but decided to have her child, and married the father.
She  began protesting in 1990, after attending an abortion protest march  in Albany.
On the eve of a holiday that has been linked to antiabortion violence,  the authorities on Tuesday were investigating whether a picture of  an aborted fetus sent to a Canadian newspaper was connected to last  month's fatal shooting of a Buffalo, N.Y. doctor who provided abortions  or four similar attacks in western New York and Canada since 1994.
The newspaper, the Hamilton (Ontario) Spectator, has received five  similar packages in the last year, some containing veiled threats  and several delivered by a man who employees said resembled James  Charles Kopp, who is wanted for questioning as a witness about the  Oct. 23 slaying of Dr. Barnett Slepian.
Five days after the shooting,  the Spectator received a package containing an antiabortion flier  with biographical information about Slepian, including a photograph  of him that had been crossed out.
``It certainly causes us to be more  interested than ever in speaking to Kopp,'' said Inspector Keith McKaskill  of the Winnipeg Police Department, a spokesman for the Canada-United  States task force investigating the five shootings.
Even as they searched  for Kopp, federal officials were also looking into three letters that  were received Monday by Catholic and antiabortion organizations in  Buffalo, Indianapolis and Chicago.
Those letters, saying they contained  the deadly anthrax bacteria, came 10 days after eight similar threats  to clinics that provide abortions.
All the letters appear to be hoaxes,  and it remains unclear whether they were connected to any of the five  shootings.
Kopp is not a suspect in the shootings.
An itinerant antiabortion  activist whose last known address is in Vermont, he is the subject  of warrants on both sides of the border.
In Canada, he is suspected  of administrative violations of immigration law; in the United States,  he is wanted as a material witness in the Slepian case.
By outward appearances, Dorothy Hayes' life seems ordinary.
She and  her family live in a rambling old home on the shore of Lake Ontario,  and every morning, she gives her husband, John, a peck on the cheek  before he goes to work.
She runs errands, like other suburban moms,  and spends much of her day taking care of her children.
But one thing  sets Mrs. Hayes apart from her neighbors.
As a devoted opponent of  abortion, the 43-year-old mother of nine regularly plays host to a  many of whom  have come to Rochester intent upon spreading the word against abortion  and shutting down clinics that provide it.
She is one of thousands  of people across the country loosely associated with anti-abortion  groups like the Lambs of Christ who have opened their homes to the  Lambs' founder, the Rev. Norman Weslin, and other itinerant demonstrators.
While many _ including Mrs. Hayes _ disavow violent tactics, supporters  of abortion rights say that people like her bear some responsibility  when the protesters they help blockade clinics or threaten doctors.
``These people who provide Father Weslin with food and shelter when  he comes into town to close the clinics are not innocent,'' said Ann  Glazier, the director of clinic defense for the Planned Parenthood  Federation.
``It's just not credible to say they aren't part of the  extremist activity that is taking place at these clinics.
They are  still guilty of interfering with women's access.''
But Mary Quinn,  a local organizer for the Lambs of Christ who also offers her home  to protesters, sees matters in a differing light.
``Taking people  in like this is an act of Christian charity,'' Mrs. Quinn said.
`People  who travel around the country doing this work are taken in by those  of us that who don't want to lose their stupid houses.
We take in  these people because they are willing to make the sacrifice.''
Members  of the Lambs of Christ have been persistent figures in protests at  the Buffalo women's clinic where Dr. Barnett Slepian worked before  he was shot to death last month.
Although no suspect has been identified  in the shooting or in several similar attacks in New York and Canada  over the past several years, officials are looking to question a Vermont  man whose car was seen near Dr. Slepian's home.
That man, James Charles  Kopp, has participated in abortion protests for more than a decade,  and often was a house guest of other members of the Lambs of Christ.
While Mrs. Hayes says she would never so much as obstruct a clinic's  door, some of those to whom she has given refuge have no qualms about  doing so.
Weslin, the leader of the Lambs of Christ, is one of those  who has benefited from Mrs. Hayes' hospitality, a modern version of  the generosity that Christ and the Apostles knew well.
He prides himself  on being arrested more than 60 times during protests in front of medical  clinics.
And throughout the 1980s and early '90s, he was active in  clinic ``rescues,'' in which protesters tried physically to restrain  patients trying to enter clinics.
Weslin stayed at Mrs. Hayes' home  only once, beginning in May 1996 when he first came to speak at local  churches about the anti-abortion movement.
But during a stay that  lasted several months, he was arrested on Federal charges of blocking  access to a Rochester health clinic where abortions were performed.
He was later convicted and served two and a half months in prison.
During the protest outside the clinic, he and several other protesters  locked themselves in a homemade contraption called ``the oven,'' made  of cement and iron.
It took police officers several hours to lug the  device to a horse trailer that carted it off.
At the same protest,  one man glued his head to a lock on a gate surrounding the clinic,  a move some protesters later said was an accident.
Abortion opponents  like Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn speak of attending peaceful observances  at abortion clinics and offering prayers for the unborn.
They talk  about counseling women about alternatives to abortion at Roman Catholic  ``pregnancy centers,'' and their support of anti-abortion candidates.
But they also say they saw nothing wrong with Weslin trying to block  access to clinics.
They describe the activity as peaceful resistance  meant to stop what they see as murders.
Weslin and the other house  guests of Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn come recommended from friends  and members of local Catholic churches, they said, adding that most  are speakers at local churches or anti-abortion events.
And although  they say they would never take into their homes a stranger wanted  by the FBI, like Kopp, they concede that they sometimes know little  about their guests.
But Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn say they know a  lot about Weslin.
An Army veteran, he has been a leader of the anti-abortion  movement for more than 25 years, they say, and founded a home for  unwed mothers.
Mrs. Hayes said that when she met him, it was obvious  he was a man of peace who ``had a tremendous devotion to the Blessed  Mother and basically recognized that we are helpless lambs.''
Barbara  Fredericks, another local abortion opponent who developed ties to  the Lambs after Weslin came to town, added that the priest epitomized  a man of God.
``I just knew when I looked at his holy shoes and his  simple coat that had been mended 50 times,'' she said.
``He was humble,  a man who was doing this for a higher purpose, trying to save people  through sacrifice and prayer.''
opp also has robust defenders among  the people who housed him as he rode about the country from protest  to protest.
E. Kenny, 20, said that his parents housed Kopp in their  St. Albans, Vt., home for two years after he spoke at their local  church in 1988.
During Kopp's stay, he was a pleasure, Kenny said,  always helping around the house.
``He was a nice guy, kind of like  an uncle to us,'' Kenny said.
``He'd sit around and play video games  with us and make us model planes out of wood.''
Like Weslin, Kopp  was consumed by a need to fight abortion and often talked about its  evils, Kenny said, adding that Kopp was a gentle man who wanted to  become a Catholic priest.
``He was always in a good mood,'' Kenny  said.
``He never did anything violent at all.''
Both Kopp and Weslin  have been arrested repeatedly during abortion protests.
The men have  moved in the same circles and at times found themselves arrested at  the same events.
Mrs. Quinn said that Weslin told her in a recent  telephone conversation that he knew Kopp.
Weslin could not be reached  for comment, but it is clear that the two men have encountered each  other.
Both faced misdemeanor charges after blocking a Burlington,  Vt., health clinic in 1990 that Kopp called ``the mill.''
And they  spent time in the same jail in Atlanta in 1988 after a clinic protest.
Slepian's death has abortion opponents like Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Quinn  worried, both about how the killing is being portrayed in the media  and what it will do to membership in groups like the Lambs of Christ.
``For a long time, you felt like the voice in the desert that wasn't  being heard,'' Mrs. Hayes said.
``And then there was this horrible  tragedy of this doctor's death becoming the face of the movement.
``We're about saving lives,'' she said.
The FBI has not talked to  Mrs. Hayes, but Kenny said that agents have spoken to him.
The Justice  Department says that a Federal task force set up this week to investigate  the killing of Slepian is looking for evidence connecting anti-abortion  violence at various clinics.
``It's fair to say that when investigating  these events, we will look at any connection between individuals engaged  in criminal conduct,'' Myron Marlin, a spokesman for the department,  said.
Many local Catholics associated with the Lambs of Christ have  tried to distance themselves from the killing of Slepian.
They are  mailing literature saying that the killer does not represent their  movement.
In addition, some people associated with the Lambs are offering  other possible explanations for the killing.
Some say they believe  that the killer might have been someone overcome by grief after a  personal experience with abortion.
Others wondered whether the shooter  had tried to wound the doctor to scare him or prevent him from performing  more abortions.
The Lambs also wonder whether abortionist opponents  are being blamed for a shooting committed by a disgruntled patient.
One idea gaining currency among the Lambs, and prominently displayed  on their Web site, suggests that the killing was the result of a plot  by abortion supporters to discredit abortion opponents just before  last week's elections.
Mrs. Hayes says she doesn't know the truth.
``There are wackos who travel around and they may be in front of the  clinic because we are drawn to the same place,'' she said.
``But you  don't know everyone who shows up and you don't turn to the person  next to you and tell them they don't belong there.''
Mrs. Fredericks  said that anyone who would shoot a doctor who provides abortions was  someone ``who had snapped, perhaps because of the importance of the  situation.''
Members of the Lambs of Christ and other opponents of  abortion in Rochester wonder whether the killing of Slepian will hinder  their efforts.
When Weslin first arrived two years ago, he brought  new focus to a group that often had done little more than counsel  pregnant women and set up booths on college campuses, they said.
``In  many cities, they have a priest for life coordinating and leading  rosary marches'' against abortion, Mrs. Quinn said.
``But with Father  Weslin coming here, we could finally come together and feel like we  were doing something sacrificial as a group.''
Mrs. Hayes said that  she felt the first pull of the movement in the early 1980s, when she  heard women speak about ``choice'' in regard to abortion.
Then she  saw ``Silent Scream,'' a well-known anti-abortion film that purports  to show the footage of an abortion.
``What I saw was the end of life,''  she said.
She began to volunteer at a Catholic pregnancy center where  she encouraged women ``not to kill their child.''
She also began to  house unwed mothers and went to stand vigil outside local clinics  where abortions were performed.
Mrs. Hayes looked at her 3-month-old  daughter, Bernadette, then pointed to the prenatal image of the infant,  a sonogram taken at 13 weeks that she keeps on her refrigerator door.
She described what could have been her baby's fate, had she been someone  else's child.
``Two pounds and two inches ago, she could have been  a partial-birth abortion,'' Mrs. Hayes said, referring to a controversial  late-term abortion procedure.
``They have the hardest time getting  the shoulders out, so they can get to the head and puncture it.
``It's  brutal, but what do you expect when the purpose is a dead baby?
There's  no question that these doctors are trying to murder a child.''
In the aftermath of last month's deadly sniper attack on an obstetrician  in upstate New York, Attorney General Janet Reno announced last week  that she was setting up a new investigative unit to examine the possibility  that the doctor was the victim of a broader anti-abortion plot.
The  unit, the National Clinic Violence Task Force, will include a dozen  Justice Department lawyers and involve several law-enforcement agencies.
But the main work of looking into the shooting of Dr. Barnett Slepian  in his suburban Buffalo home and how it fits a larger pattern of organized  violence will be done by the FBI, which has jurisdiction over domestic  terrorism.
For many in the FBI, that's a problem.
In contrast to the  old image of gung-ho FBI agents turning their surveillance machinery  on political groups, a number of senior FBI agents privately expressed  misgivings about the attorney general's latest task force, the second  she has ordered to begin a broad investigation into a conspiracy involving  anti-abortion violence.
FBI officials fear that expanding the investigation  could drive the agency over the ill-defined boundary that separates  inquiries into criminal activity from those into political causes  and unpopular ideas.
Today's agents are eager to disassociate themselves  from the old J. Edgar Hoover days of trampling the civil rights of  political dissidents in the guise of serious investigations.
They  do not want the agency drawn into the middle of the bitter ideological  war between anti-abortion groups and abortion rights advocates, who  have long asserted the existence of an organized campaign against  clinics and doctors.
Many of those calling for government help were  once themselves subjects of FBI interest as anti-war and civil rights  activists.
Senior agency officials, including Director Louis Freeh,  were starting their careers in the early 1970s and watched in dismay  as the FBI was shaken by revelations about Cointelpro, the counterintelligence  program that allowed agents to spy on, burgle, wiretap and infiltrate  anti-war and civil rights groups like Students for a Democratic Society  and the Student Nonviolence Coordinating Committee.
Some officials  are dubious that a conspiracy exists to kill doctors who perform abortions.
They came up empty handed when Reno ordered the first federal inquiry  in 1994 after the killing of a Florida doctor and his bodyguard.
The  Justice Department conducted a two-year grand jury investigation;  agents pursued some anti-abortion activists using surveillance teams.
But investigators never found a specific plot against abortion clinics  and staff members.
Violence at abortion clinics is only part of the  problem.
The FBI has in recent years found itself thrown into a minefield  of politically tinged cases involving the volatile worlds of anti-government  militias, environmental and Christian extremists, white separatists,  animal rights activists and Islamic fundamentalists.
``The FBI is  very quick to jump from investigating crime to investigating political  association,'' said David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University.
``When you move from investigating crimes to investigating groups,  that all-important nexus to criminal conduct gets lost, the focus  gets broader and broader and you start sweeping in all kinds of lawful  political activity.''
In response to terrorist attacks like the bombings  of the World Trade Center in 1993, the Oklahoma City federal building  in 1995 and the Olympic park in Atlanta in 1996, the agency has increased  efforts to deter such incidents in a major prevention program.
In  such cases, the Justice Department, the FBI and other law enforcement  agencies said they operate under domestic security guidelines that  require investigators to find a ``reasonable indication'' that a group  is planning to break the law before they can open an inquiry into  an organization.
Before the authorities can use such intrusive tactics  as wiretapping or property searches, they must have specific evidence.
Yet FBI agents throughout the country have quietly evaluated the threat  posed by a variety of extremist groups through its links to local  authorities and informal interviews with the leaders of some groups.
Their conclusion is that most of these groups pose little real danger.
Much more difficult to investigate are lone terrorists inflamed by  the oratory of extremist ideology but who belong to no group, drifting  along society's frayed margins, ``off the grid,'' as some agents describe  it, without the usual ties to family, friends or work.
The profile  fits Eric Robert Rudolph, the fugitive wanted for bombings at the  Atlanta Olympics, a gay nightclub and two abortion clinics.
He has  kept his beliefs mostly to himself, although acquaintances hint that  he was familiar with religious extremism and hate groups.
In contrast,  James Charles Kopp, who is being sought as a material witness in the  killing of Slepian, left a trail of clues about his motives.
He was  an early follower of Randall Terry, a leader of Operation Rescue.
Later, Kopp was associated with the Lambs of Christ, an another militant  anti-abortion group.
One law-enforcement official said that the government  should do what it does best.
``We should investigate violations,''  he said.
``We shouldn't investigate groups.''
Everyone who knew Dr. Barnett Slepian knew that the slight, graying  physician endured a measure of stress that would exhaust, even break,  most people.
There were the strangers who pawed through the garbage  cans at his home and growled ``murderer'' as they passed him in the  grocery store aisle.
Demonstrators assailed his pregnant patients  as they arrived at his office for their checkups, calling him a baby  killer.
Outside the clinic where he performed abortions two days a  week, pickets shouted epithets like ``pig'' to his face.
Slepian,  an obstetrician and gynecologist by training and an abortion doctor  by principle, rarely acknowledged the strain.
He might crack an occasional  joke at the expense of the protesters who shadowed him at work and  on weekends.
Then he would do something unexpected, like invite an  anti-abortion leader to breakfast or stop and chat with a familiar  demonstrator outside the clinic.
So when he was killed Oct. 23 by  a sniper's bullet fired through the kitchen window of his home in  the Buffalo, N.Y., suburbs, a furtive execution that fit a pattern  of four earlier attacks on abortion providers in western New York  state and Canada, friends and relatives wondered not so much that  Slepian's work could arouse such murderous violence.
He had predicted  as much himself.
Instead, they wondered, once again, that he persisted  in that work, long after other Buffalo doctors had surrendered to  the pressure of abortion opponents.
``He was an incredibly fatalistic  person who thought that if your number's up, it's up, and there is  nothing you can do about it,'' said H. Amanda Robb, the doctor's 32-year-old  niece.
``And he was incredibly stubborn.
He said that women had a  right to comprehensive health care and since he was a women's doctor,  he was going to provide it for them.''
Slepian is the third doctor  to be killed in the last five years in bombings and shootings that  have killed 7 people and wounded 17 at abortion clinics around the  nation.
To his tormentors, he was simply an abortion doctor.
To members  of the abortion rights movement, he was a martyr for their cause.
But Slepian was far from either.
In interviews with friends and family  a conservative  who advocated old-fashioned values like self-reliance, a shy man who  had rare flashes of anger, a doctor who performed abortions but had  no more patience for women who had multiple abortions than for women  who had multiple children they did not want or could not support.
He was killed because he performed a medical procedure that has become  emotional and politicized.
Yet there is nothing in his life to suggest  he was a crusader in either politics or medicine.
Rather, he was an  obstinate, unassuming man who did a remarkable thing.
Out of contrariness  and out of conscience, say those who knew him, he refused to allow  anyone to dictate what kind of doctor he should be, and for that,  he paid with his life.
The clues to Slepian's flinty brand of commitment  lie, in part, in his upbringing.
His was a family that took success  for granted even as it teetered on the edge of poverty.
To earn money  for medical school, he shoveled muck at a ranch and drove a taxi.
He made few friends, but those he had were friends for life.
When  their wives were sick, he called repeatedly.
When they were lonely,  he flew to their side.
Slepian, who was known as Bart, used to tell  people that he chose obstetrics because it is a specialty that exposes  a doctor to the least suffering, and that he performed abortions because  it was legal and the alternatives were so much worse.
Slepian often  expressed exasperation over women who came to him for abortion after  abortion.
``Don't they get it?''
his clinic staff recall him saying  more than once.
He had the same impatience for women like those he  remembered from his residency in inner-city Buffalo, who had child  after child and no means of support.
``He had the contempt for that  of somebody who had pulled himself up by his bootstraps and made it  in the world,'' Ms. Robb said.
He believed that to ban abortions or,  just as shameful in his view, to stop teaching young doctors how to  perform them, would not correct the human imperfections that he found  so irritating.
``There are 1.5 million abortions performed in this  country,'' his niece said, ``and he just felt we're not equipped to  handle 1.5 million unwanted children.''
When he was killed, at the  age of 52, Bart Slepian owned an imposing red brick home in the quiet  suburb of Amherst, complete with a swimming pool with piped-in music  and an assortment of the time-saving gadgets he adored.
Slepian's  trajectory to that comfortable doctor's life had been unconventional.
His grandfather, a Russian Jewish immigrant who started out selling  shoelaces from a pushcart in Boston, propelled all five of his sons  into Harvard at a time when few Jews met the university's blue-blood  standards.
His father, in turn, decreed that his own three sons would  be doctors or earn Ph.D's.
``We grew up in a home where there was  tremendous, tremendous, tremendous respect for education,'' said Serena  Robb, Slepian's sister, who is four years older than him.
``If you  got an A, it was OK If you got a B, you got yelled at.''
The family's  means did not match its expectations.
Slepian's father, Philip, had  joined his own father's business manufacturing leather soles for shoes.
Soon after Bart was born in 1946 in Boston, the company failed, so  to save money, the father moved his family of six to his in-laws'  apartment in McKeesport, Pa., and then to Rochester, N.Y.
Once settled,  Slepian's father set himself up as a freelance writer, crisscrossing  the country in his old Studebaker, researching the origins of prominent  citizens at the Library of Congress and writing their stories for  small-town newspapers.
He sold articles by the hundreds, and was still  writing until his death nine years ago at the age of 93.
The success  that was expected of Bart Slepian did not come easily.
As a child,  he was so shy that he cried when anyone looked at him, his sister  recalled.
An unexceptional student, he went to a local community college  before transferring to the University of Denver, where he majored  in zoology.
Rejected by medical schools in the United States _ the  fate of two out of three applicants in the late 1960s _ he studied  one year in Belgium and then enrolled at the Autonomous University  for Medicine in Guadalajara, Mexico.
His friends remember him as funny  and obstinate, a thin young man with glasses and a receding hairline  who beat all comers at arm-wrestling and pool.
``Bart had certain  beliefs, strongly held,'' said Richard Schwarz, an old classmate who  is an internist on Long Island.
``He always said you shouldn't sit  around whining about things,'' Schwarz said.
``He would say, `Go after  what's yours and what's right.'''
Bart Slepian's determination surfaced  in quirky ways.
He once insisted on going to the top of the World  Trade Center, despite a crippling fear of heights.
To get to the window,  he crawled, inch by inch.
``I said, `You don't have to do this,' ''  recalled Schwarz, who was with him at the time.
``And he said, `I  want to do it.'
Bart made it count.
He felt alive.''
Forced to drop  out of school every few semesters to work, he lived in Reno with his  sister Serena, a widow who was struggling to take care of two young  daughters.
She worked as a waitress and a blackjack dealer, sharing  her tips with him while he drove a cab, cleaned barns at a ranch and  worked as a laboratory assistant at the local Veterans Administration  hospital.
After graduation, he moved to Buffalo for his medical residency.
There he married Lynne Breitbart, a registered nurse 10 years his  junior, and scraped together the money to buy an obstetrics practice  from a doctor who was about to retire.
He had a soothing, unhurried  manner.
When a patient of his, Patti Durlak, was diagnosed with diabetes,  Slepian referred her to a specialist but called every few days for  months to help her overcome a fear of the needles she had to use for  her insulin injections.
``The other doctor said, `Just deal with it,'''  Mrs. Durlak recalled.
``Not Dr. Slepian.''
In most ways, he was a  typical suburban family man, working six days a week and spending  his free time at Little League games and county fairs with his four  sons.
But by the late 1980s, he and other abortion doctors in Buffalo  were under siege.
In one notorious 1991 incident recorded on videotape,  the Rev. Paul Schenck, one of the fieriest of Buffalo's anti-abortion  leaders, threw himself in front of the doctor's car as he pulled into  the clinic driveway.
Slepian parked on the street.
As he pushed his  way through the crowd of chanting demonstrators, Schenck cupped his  hands around his mouth and lunged, shouting, ``Slepian, you pig!''
Slepian's attempts to separate the abortion conflict from his private  life were futile.
The protests followed him home and the man who had  been so bashful as a boy found himself, uncomfortably, at the center  of controversy and attention.
Once, he showed his anger.
In 1988,  when demonstrators jeered at him from the sidewalk in front of his  home as he opened Hanukkah presents with his children, the doctor  came out brandishing a baseball bat.
He denied he hurt anyone, but  a town judge ordered him to repair one protester's smashed van window  and pay a portion of another's medical bills.
The outburst surprised  his family and friends.
It was not Slepian's style to make a public  fuss, much less acknowledge the stress of being taunted by protesters.
``Stress?''
his oldest brother Paul responded gruffly when asked about  the doctor's mood.
``I never heard the word used in my family, except  as an engineering term.
He said it was a nuisance.''
Mrs. Slepian  did not respond to requests for an interview.
She expressed rage to  The Buffalo News shortly after the shooting.
She said that whoever  had killed her husband deserved the death penalty and that she would  be happy to administer the lethal injection herself.
She also spoke  out after Schenck's brother, Robert, another anti-abortion leader  who frequently confronted Slepian, sent a bouquet of flowers.
Mrs.  Slepian denounced him as ``a hypocrite.''
After the confrontation  in 1988, Slepian turned to civil harassment lawsuits, letters and  levity to deal with the protesters.
In 1993, when a man active in  the anti-abortion effort was arrested for rifling through the doctor's  garbage cans at home, Slepian tried to treat the incident lightly.
``They hopefully got the bags full of dirty diapers,'' he joked.
He  tried to engage his critics through the local newspaper.
He told The  Buffalo News that abortion protesters should turn their energies to  helping women avoid unwanted pregnancies through birth control and  counseling.
In a letter to the editor he warned that by repeatedly  calling him a murderer, his critics were inciting violence.
Slepian  accepted that opponents of abortion acted out of moral conviction,  his friends said, but resented the personal attacks.
``He thought  it tended to demonize and dehumanize him and increased the danger,''  said his lawyer, Glenn Edward Murray.
So Slepian took a step that  few of the nation's beleaguered abortion clinic doctors dared.
He  insisted that if he tried hard enough, he might cut through the venom.
To the dismay of the staff members who feared for his safety, Slepian  began about a year ago to stop and chat with protesters he recognized  outside the Womenservices abortion clinic in Buffalo, where he worked  two days a week.
He surprised a gathering of protesters who were preparing  for what they euphemistically called a ``house call,'' or demonstration  at the doctor's home, and invited the protest's organizer, the Rev.  Robert Behn, to breakfast.
Their hourlong conversation the next morning  was inconclusive, Behn said, dismissing Slepian's gesture as an ``attempt  to get people to like him.''
He asked Slepian how performing abortions  affected him spiritually.
In response, he recalled, the doctor said,  ``I'm fine spiritually.''
Slepian, meanwhile, focused more on time  away from home with his family.
He planned to take a cruise next spring.
He bought a time-share apartment near Disney World in Florida.
``He  had so many plans,'' said Ellen Fink, a close friend of the couple  for 15 years.
``He wasn't done.
He wasn't done living yet.''
Still,  sometimes during the most casual conversations, a shadow would appear.
When his wife gave him a gray African parrot for a birthday gift,  Slepian joked that the bird would probably outlive him so he would  teach it his eulogy.
``He would talk about the funeral he wanted,''  Mrs. Fink said.
``He said he didn't have a lot of friends and wanted  all of them to come in separate cars, one in each car, so he'd have  a long procession.''
In the week before his death, Slepian had reasons  to be preoccupied with thoughts of mortality.
A medical checkup had  revealed a blockage of his heart, Mrs. Fink said, recounting a conversation  with Mrs. Slepian the day of the slaying.
A blockage is a sign of  probable coronary artery disease.
He was to have more tests the following  week.
``I said, `Lynne, just relax, it's going to be OK,''' Mrs. Fink  recalled.
That same day, the National Abortion Federation sent a fax  to the Womenservices clinic warning of a pattern of sniper attacks  on abortion doctors that occurred in early November.
Marilynne Buckham,  the clinic director, sent it to Slepian.
``He definitely took it seriously,''  she recalled.
Typically, the doctor did not share any concerns he  might have felt.
``It was a normal day,'' said Tammi Latini, his office  assistant.
``We were horsing around.'
That evening, the Slepians went  to synagogue to mark the ninth anniversary of the death of Slepian's  father.
Shortly after they returned home, a sniper's bullet smashed  through the kitchen window, killing Slepian as he chatted with his  wife and sons.
The protesters returned to the clinic five days later,  the first day it reopened.
Mrs. Buckham, the director, said Slepian  would not have been surprised.
They have their routine.
So did he.
``He never wanted a day to end on a bad note,'' she said.
``At the  end of the day, I would always say, `Thank you for coming.'
And he  would always turn with a stupid grin and say, `Thanks for having me.'''
At least 60 teenagers were killed and another 160 were injured in a dance hall fire in Goteborg, Sweden, Sweden's second largest city.
The fire was the worst in Sweden's modern history.
At least 400 teenagers, attending a Halloween dance, were crammed into a facility meant to hold 150.
The dance attendees were mostly immigrant children from representing 19 nationalities, including Somalia, Ethiopia, Iraq, Iran and former Yugoslavia.
The cause of the fire, which quickly engulfed the two-story brick building is unknown as investigators continue to probe the ruins.
Emergency help was delayed by about three minutes because of language difficulties.
A fire rapidly destroyed a Goteborg, Sweden dance hall as some 400 teenaged Halloween revelers jammed up while trying to evacuate.
At least 60 died, mostly from smoke inhalation, and about 150 were injured.
The actual capacity of the 2nd floor dance hall was 150.
Forensic experts are having success identifying the burned bodies but the question of how the fire began is still unanswered.
The blaze gutted the entire building owned by the Macedonian Association.
Mostly immigrants attended the dance.
The fire squads say they lost about six minutes while trying to respond to a call in poor Swedish.
It is doubtful a quicker response would have made a difference.
A fire at an overcrowded dance hall in Goteborg, Sweden killed 60 and injured 180.
Most victims were 13-18, immigrants covering 19 nationalities.
The 2-story brick building was rated for 150 but held 400.
Owned by the Macedonian Association, it had been rented out to 8 party arrangers for a Halloween dance, held on the 2nd floor.
One of two exit stairways was blocked by fire.
A panicky phone call in poor Swedish to authorities took 3 minutes to understand.
Fire trucks were on the scene 6 minutes later.
The explosive, fast-spreading fire reached 600C.
It may have burned undetected for some time.
Arson was a possibility but the cause remains undetermined.
Sweden's deadliest fire occurred on Halloween when a dance hall in Goteborg, filled with teenagers, burst into flames.
The cause is not known, but the hall, approved for 150, contained as many as 400 and one of the two exits was blocked.
Sixty were killed and between 150 and 173 injured.
Most were immigrants or their children and represented 19 nationalities.
Many felt the rescue was late.
Rescuers said they had trouble understanding the first call, but were there in 6 minutes.
Condolences came from Swedish authorities.
A memorial service was held and a memory wall was growing.
Although identifications are difficult, 40 of the dead have been identified.
A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween  revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring  about 180.
``It reminded me of the gas chambers at Auschwitz,'' local  rescue service leader Lennart Olin said on national radio, describing  the sight when rescuers first entered the building in Goteborg, a  city of half a million people on the country's west coast.
The fire  was the deadliest in modern Swedish history since 1978, when 20 people  died in the town of Boraas.
``We are still searching the building  ... but so far we have found 60 dead,'' Goteborg police official Jan  Edmundson said on national radio.
At a news conference Friday morning,  police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases.
The injured toll was lowered slightly to 180, but included seven people  who needed treatment at emergency burn centers.
Binan Atta was walking  to the Macedonian Association when he saw the fire.
He said he raced  in and pulled to safety several people, including a friend.
``His  clothes had burned off.
His skin was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were just screaming,'' he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran  Church, where several dozen family and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped.
They didn't even  look down'' beforehand.
Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m.  (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes  later, rescue workers said.
The blaze was already consuming the two-story  brick building.
The dance was on the second floor.
About 300 or 400  people were inside, police said.
Many escaped on their own.
Police  rescued 40, and recovered 59 bodies.
The 60th victim died at a hospital.
``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman Bengt Staaf said, with  youths trampling each other to get out, and other youths scuffling  with police to get in and attempt to help friends.
The cause of the  fire was not immediately known.
``What we know is that there was an  explosion,'' Edmundson said.
Olin said there were signs that the fire  was set.
``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not  a normal fire,'' he said.
The Swedish news agency TT reported 190  people were taken to hospitals with injuries, and about 20 were in  intensive care.
Seven of the most severely injured were taken by helicopter  to burn clinics in other cities, the report said.
Goteborg is about  500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm.
The  fire broke out about midnight (2300 GMT Thursday) in building of the  local Macedonian Association, which organized the dance.
The crowd  in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year  olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend.
``A night full of  expectation, happiness over extra leave from school and high spirits  in anticipation of a weekend was brutally and suddenly changed into  a tragedy of incomprehensible dimensions,'' the Goteborg city council  said in a statement.
``Goteborg is today a city in shock.''
Jamal  Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the blaze  started with about 400 people inside.
``It looked like it started  in the ceiling, and lamps and loudspeakers fell to the floor,'' he  was quoted as saying.
``It was chaos.
Everybody was trying to get  out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
...  Others kicked out the windows and jumped out.''
Ambulances were called  in from several nearby communities.
The Goteborg rescue services also  brought city buses into service to help transport the injured.
Olin  said the rescue service inspected the building in April 1997 and ``fulfilled  all possible demands as far as emergency exits and the possibility  for fast evacuation.''
Anna-Lisa Saar, a social worker at Oestra Hospital,  where many of the victims were taken, said identifying many of them  was difficult.
``Maybe you have teen-agers yourself and know how they  are ... They maybe don't have their own identification, but have that  of a friend who is a year older.
Girls don't carry their identification  on them, but in a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,''  she said, according to TT.
Goteborg has about 435,000 people.
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers  into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring about 180  in Sweden's second-largest city.
The fast-spreading fire completely  gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that  local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the  dance on the building's second floor, the facility had approval for  a maximum capacity of 150, said Hans Carlsson, the detective leading  the disaster investigation.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian  Association local immigrant group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish  history.
In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town  of Boraas.
At a news conference Friday morning, police said most victims  choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were found  at the scene and the 60th victim died at a hospital, officials said.
The dance apparently was attended mostly by immigrants or children  of immigrant.
Police said the list of injured included Somalis and  people from current and former Yugoslavia.
The Macedonian Association,  which rents space in the building, had in turn rented the facility  out to another person for the dance, Carlsson said.
That person was  not immdiately identified.
Binan Atta was walking to the Macedonian  Association when he saw the fire.
He said he raced in and pulled to  safety several people, including a friend.
``His clothes had burned  off.
His skin was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were  just screaming,'' he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran Church, where  several dozen family and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about  10 people in windows who just jumped.
They didn't even look down''  beforehand.
Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday  and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers  said.
The blaze was already consuming the building.
The building had  just two exits, one of which was blocked by fire, city police technician  Stephen Holmberg was quoted as saying by the Swedish news agency TT.
``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman Bengt Staaf said, with  youths trampling each other to get out, and other youths scuffling  with police to get in and attempt to help friends.
The cause of the  fire was not immediately known, although officials said it apparently  began with an explosion.
Olin said there were indications that the  fire could have been set.
``The fact that it spread so fast indicates  that it was not a normal fire,'' he said.
About 180 people were taken  to hospitals with injuries, and about 20 were in intensive care.
Seven  of the most severely injured were taken by helicopter to burn clinics  in other cities.
Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest  of the capital, Stockholm.
The crowd in the second story of the building  contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday  weekend.
``A night full of expectation, happiness over extra leave  from school and high spirits in anticipation of a weekend was brutally  and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible dimensions,''  the Goteborg city council said in a statement.
``Goteborg is today  a city in shock.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire  site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence.
Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the  blaze started with about 400 people inside.
``It looked like it started  in the ceiling, and lamps and loudspeakers fell to the floor,'' he  was quoted as saying.
``It was chaos.
Everybody was trying to get  out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
...  Others kicked out the windows and jumped out.''
Ambulances were called  in from several nearby communities.
The Goteborg rescue services also  brought city buses into service to help transport the injured.
Anna-Lisa  Saar, a social worker at Oestra Hospital, where many of the victims  were taken, said identifying many of them was difficult.
``Maybe you  have teen-agers yourself and know how they are ... They maybe don't  have their own identification, but have that of a friend who is a  year older.
Girls don't carry their identification on them, but in  a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,'' she said, according  to TT.
Goteborg has about 435,000 people.
A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween  revelers into a deathtrap, killing at least 60 people and injuring  about 180.
The fast-spreading fire completely gutted the two-story  building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue  service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
Although  an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on  the upper floor, the facility had approval for a maximum capacity  of 150, Hans Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster investigation.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant  group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history since 1978, when  20 people died in the town of Boraas.
On Friday, police said most  victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were  found at the scene, and the 60th victim died at a hospital, officials  said.
The injured included about 20 in serious condition.
The dance  apparently was attended mostly by immigrants or children of immigrants.
Police said the list of injured included Somalis and people from current  and former Yugoslavia.
The Macedonian Association had rented the facility  out for the dance, Carlsson said.
That person was not immediately  identified.
Binan Atta was walking to the Macedonian Association when  he saw the fire.
He said he raced in and pulled to safety several  people, including a friend.
``His clothes had burned off.
His skin  was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were just screaming,''  he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran Church, where several dozen family  and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about 10 people in windows  who just jumped.
They didn't even look down'' beforehand.
Fire officials  were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck  at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said.
The blaze was  already consuming the brick building.
About 300 or 400 people were  inside, police said.
Many escaped on their own.
Police rescued 40.
The Swedish news agency TT said the association had permission to  have only 150 people in the facility.
The building had just two exits,  one of which was blocked by fire, city police technician Stephen Holmberg  was quoted as saying by TT.
``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman  Bengt Staaf said, with youths trampling each other to get out, and  other youths scuffling with police to get in and attempt to help friends.
The cause of the fire was not immediately known.
``What we know is  that there was an explosion,'' Edmundson said.
Olin said there were  indications that the fire could have been set.
``The fact that it  spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal fire,'' he said.
About 180 people were taken to hospitals.
Seven of the most severely  injured were taken by helicopter to burn clinics in other cities,  the report said.
Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest  of the capital, Stockholm.
The dance was filled with teen-agers celebrating  Halloween and a holiday weekend.
``A night full of expectation, happiness  over extra leave from school and high spirits in anticipation of a  weekend was brutally and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible  dimensions,'' the Goteborg city council said in a statement.
``Goteborg  is today a city in shock.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited  the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement  of condolence.
Jamal Fawz, graf 19 pvs
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers  into a deathtrap, killing 65 people and injuring 157 others in Sweden's  second-largest city.
The fast-spreading fire that broke out just a  few minutes before midnight Thursday gutted the building and left  rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart  Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
The cause of the fire had not been  determined as of Friday evening.
Although an estimated 400 people,  most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the building's second floor,  the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, said Hans  Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster investigation.
The fire,  at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant group,  was the deadliest in modern Swedish history.
In 1978, 20 people died  in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas.
Police said most victims  choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were found  at the scene and six others died later.
Of the injured, 57 were in  intensive care, said Sven Martinell, spokesman for the local medical  authorities.
The building did not have sprinklers and was not required  to have them, officials said.
The dance was attended mostly by immigrants  or children of immigrants.
Police said the dead or injured represented  at least 19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis,  Iranians and Swedes, along with people from current and former Yugoslavia  and unspecified Latin American countries.
The Macedonian Association,  which rents space in the building, had in turn rented the facility  out to others for the dance, Carlsson said.
That person was not immdiately  identified.
Binan Atta was walking to the Macedonian Association when  he saw the fire.
He said he raced in and pulled to safety several  people, including a friend.
``His clothes had burned off.
His skin  was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were just screaming,''  he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran Church, where several dozen family  and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about 10 people in windows  who just jumped.
They didn't even look down'' beforehand.
Fire officials  were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck  at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said.
The blaze was  already consuming the building.
The building had just two exits, one  of which was blocked by fire, city police technician Stephen Holmberg  was quoted as saying by the Swedish news agency TT.
``It was a panic,''  Goteborg police spokesman Bengt Staaf said, with youths trampling  each other to get out, and other youths scuffling with police to get  in and attempt to help friends.
Olin said there were indications that  the fire could have been set.
``The fact that it spread so fast indicates  that it was not a normal fire,'' he said.
Goteborg is about 500 kilometers  (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm.
The crowd in the  second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating  Halloween and a holiday weekend.
``A night full of expectation, happiness  over extra leave from school and high spirits in anticipation of a  weekend was brutally and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible  dimensions,'' the Goteborg city council said in a statement.
``Goteborg  is today a city in shock.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited  the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement  of condolence.
Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance  floor when the blaze started with about 400 people inside.
``It looked  like it started in the ceiling, and lamps and loudspeakers fell to  the floor,'' he was quoted as saying.
``It was chaos.
Everybody was  trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to  the exit.
... Others kicked out the windows and jumped out.''
Ambulances  were called in from several nearby communities.
The Goteborg rescue  services also brought city buses into service to help transport the  injured.
Anna-Lisa Saar, a social worker at Oestra Hospital, where  many of the victims were taken, said identifying many of them was  difficult.
``Maybe you have teen-agers yourself and know how they  are ... They maybe don't have their own identification, but have that  of a friend who is a year older.
Girls don't carry their identification  on them, but in a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,''  she said, according to TT.
Goteborg has about 435,000 people.
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers  into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 162 others in Sweden's  second-largest city.
Police earlier had reported 65 dead, but backed  off that figure Friday evening. ''
The earlier information that police  gave out was wrong,'' Hand Carlsson, the lead detective in the case,  told a news conference.
The fast-spreading fire that broke out just  a few minutes before midnight Thursday gutted the building and left  rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart  Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
The cause of the fire had not been  determined as of Friday evening.
Although an estimated 400 people,  most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the building's second floor,  the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, said Carlsson.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant  group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history.
In 1978, 20 people  died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas.
Police said most  victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were  found at the scene and one other died later.
Of the injured, at least  57 were in intensive care, according to Sven Martinell, spokesman  for the local medical authorities.
The building did not have sprinklers  and was not required to have them, officials said.
The dance was attended  mostly by immigrants or children of immigrants.
Police said the dead  or injured represented at least 19 nationalities, including Somalis,  Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, along with people from current  and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American countries.
The  Macedonian Association, which rents space in the building, had in  turn rented the facility out to others for the dance, Carlsson said.
That person was not immdiately identified.
Binan Atta was walking  to the Macedonian Association when he saw the fire.
He said he raced  in and pulled to safety several people, including a friend.
``His  clothes had burned off.
His skin was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were just screaming,'' he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran  Church, where several dozen family and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped.
They didn't even  look down'' beforehand.
Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m.  (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes  later, rescue workers said.
The blaze was already consuming the building.
The building had just two exits, one of which was blocked by fire,  city police technician Stephen Holmberg was quoted as saying by the  Swedish news agency TT.
``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman  Bengt Staaf said, with youths trampling each other to get out, and  other youths scuffling with police to get in and attempt to help friends.
Olin said there were indications that the fire could have been set.
``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal  fire,'' he said.
Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest  of the capital, Stockholm.
The crowd in the second story of the building  contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday  weekend.
``A night full of expectation, happiness over extra leave  from school and high spirits in anticipation of a weekend was brutally  and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible dimensions,''  the Goteborg city council said in a statement.
``Goteborg is today  a city in shock.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire  site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence.
Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the  blaze started with about 400 people inside.
``It looked like it started  in the ceiling, and lamps and loudspeakers fell to the floor,'' he  was quoted as saying.
``It was chaos.
Everybody was trying to get  out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
...  Others kicked out the windows and jumped out.''
Ambulances were called  in from several nearby communities.
The Goteborg rescue services also  brought city buses into service to help transport the injured.
Anna-Lisa  Saar, a social worker at Oestra Hospital, where many of the victims  were taken, said identifying many of them was difficult.
``Maybe you  have teen-agers yourself and know how they are ... They maybe don't  have their own identification, but have that of a friend who is a  year older.
Girls don't carry their identification on them, but in  a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,'' she said, according  to TT.
Goteborg has about 435,000 people.
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers  into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 162 others in Sweden's  second-largest city.
Police earlier had reported 65 dead, but backed  off that figure Friday evening. ''
The earlier information that police  gave out was wrong,'' Hans Carlsson, the lead detective in the case,  told a news conference.
The fast-spreading, 3rd graf pvs
A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween  revelers into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 155.
The  fast-spreading fire that broke out just a few minutes before midnight  Thursday gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene  that local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening.
Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the  dance on the upper floor, the facility had approval for a maximum  capacity of 150, Hans Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster  investigation.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association  local immigrant group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history.
In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas.
Police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases;  59 bodies were found at the scene and one other died later.
Of the  injured, at least 57 were in intensive care, according to Sven Martinell,  spokesman for the local medical authorities.
Police earlier had reported  65 dead, but backed off that figure Friday evening.
``The earlier  information that police gave out was wrong,'' said Hans Carlsson,  the lead detective in the case.
The building, graf 5 pvs
Hundreds of teen-agers jammed into an upstairs hall planning to dance  the night away, but by the time the sun rose Friday they were dead,  clinging to life in hospitals or weeping in disbelief at a fire that  killed 67 of them.
Police said another 173 people were injured, 20  of them severely, in the explosive fire that engulfed the plain brick  two-story building just before midnight Thursday and turned a boisterous  disco dance into a screaming terror in a matter of moments.
Bent metal  bars on some of the hall's windows showed the panic-fueled strength  that the teen-agers, many of them immigrants, exerted as they sought  ways out of the hall, which with some 400 people inside was crowded  to more than twice its legal capacity.
Below the second-floor windows  lay stray shoes, broken glass and bloody blankets used to wrap those  who may or may not have lived.
``I've been crying all day.
I haven't  been able to sleep.
I'm alive, so why should I sleep when my friends  are dead,'' 17-year-old Alina Turk said as she stood outside the ruined  building Friday afternoon.
She said she had been at the dance and  two male friends of hers died.
Zuhir Hersi, the 17-year-old disc jockey  at the bash, told of his ordeal in telegraphic bursts.
``Panic.
No  help.
No police.
No firemen.
Only kids helping each other,'' he said  from his bed in a Goteborg hospital.
Although Hersi, like many of  the youths at the dance, believes the police and firemen were slow,  authorities said the first fire trucks were on the scene within five  minutes of getting the alarm.
But the fire spread so fast that even  an instant response would likely have been too slow.
The cause of  the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening.
Fire Brigade  Engineer Bo Wahlstroem said the flames' quick, raging spread could  indicate arson, or that the fire had burned undetected for a time  before exploding.
The fire destroyed the building, whose second floor,  where the dance took place, was rented by the local Macedonian immigrant  association in Sweden's second-largest city.
The association had hired  out the hall for the night to eight party arrangers, police said but  declined to identify the arrangers.
The crowd was mostly aged 13 to  18, witnesses said, and consisted mostly of immigrants or children  of immigrant parents.
Officials said the dead and injured were of  19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians  and Swedes, as well as people from the current and former Yugoslavia  and unspecified Latin American countries.
Identifying the dead was  a wrackingly slow process, forcing relatives and friends exhausted  with dread to wait for hours at hospitals.
Some were able to make  the wait in rooms off-limits to journalists, but many had to wait  in corridors, crying and teen-agers hurry in and out of rooms as they  looked for their pals.
Only 14 bodies had been indentified by Friday  evening.
``The identification is hard not only because of the burns  but also because they have no driver's licenses or other documents  they were so young,'' said Kerstin Einarsson of Sahlgrenska Hospital,  the largest in the city of 435,000 some 500 kilometers (300 miles)  west of Stockholm.
The blaze, the worst fire disaster in Sweden's  modern history, shocked a country renowned for its smooth calmness.
King Carl XVI Gustaf, on a trip out of the country, sent a statement  reassuring victims' relatives that ``all of us in Sweden feel great  sympathy.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson travelled from Stockholm  to the fire site, first laying flowers outside and walking into the  gutted wreck.
``The floor was full of shoes and boots, the same kind  of boots my own children wear,'' he said.
On Friday evening, about  1,500 mostly young people, came to the Goteborg Cathedral to try to  assuage their grief and bewilderment at a memorial service.
The youths  were dressed in the same sort of hip-hop garb that the dance-goers  had worn, but listened to delicate hymns instead of pounding disco.
They wept, they embraced, and some looked around nervously, apparently  not knowing how to behave in a church.
``I don't go to church.
I'm  a Muslim, but I don't go to prayers,'' said a young man who gave his  name only as Sami.
``I'm accompanying my Christian friends.
We lost  someone.
We're mourning _ that's all.''
A panicky telephone call in poor Swedish was the first word that authorities  got of a fire racing through a dance hall crowded with immigrant teen-agers,  delaying fire squads' response to the blaze that killed 60 and injured  162, officials said Saturday.
Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency  services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took  three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where  to send fire trucks.
The first fire trucks and rescue squads were  on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen said  at a news conference.
He and other officials declined to comment on  whether a quicker response could have saved any of the mostly immigrant  victims.
The minutes of delay felt endless to those caught in the  terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily of what they  saw as a slow and even obstructive response. ''
No help.
No police.
No firemen,'' 17-year-old Zuhir Hersi, one of the disc jockeys at  the bash, said Friday, hours after the blaze exploded. ''
Just kids  helping kids.''
And once the squads arrived, the kids were blocked  from helping, they say. ''
We could have saved more young people if  only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as saying  by the newspaper Expressen.
On Saturday, hundreds of people stood  quietly outside the gutted building amid flowers and candles as they  attempted to come to grips with catastrophe.
In the parking lot that  a day before had been a tumult of ambulances and screams, mourners  had laid a 30-meter-long (100-foot-long) pile of bouquets, candles  ``I  will see you in heaven,'' ``We miss you'' _ and the people who stood  reading them also had few words.
``I just wanted to show my sympathy.
I think about them.
There's nothing else we can do,'' said Caroline  Ericsson, who didn't know any of the victims.
For Lasse Gustavsson,  having the right words wasn't as important as showing his face, severely  disfigured in a fire.
The former Goteborg firefighter lost his ears,  his eyelids and most of his nose in a gas explosion.
By showing up,  he said, he wanted to show the victims' relatives and friends that  spirit can help them pull through despair.
``I can't give them hope.
Consolation is enough,'' he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances  at his scars.
Many of those injured in the blaze may have to endure  similar shocked looks the rest of their lives.
Authorities say the  explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the overcrowded hall  to 600 degrees (1,100 F).
The cause of the fire that broke out just  before midnight Thursday remains under investigation.
Witness accounts  have varied widely, with some reporting smoke coming from the cellar  and others saying the fire appeared to start in the ceiling of the  dance hall on the building's second floor.
The fire's quick spread  has prompted speculation that it could have been set, but officials  also say the explosive spread could have been because the fire had  been burning undetected for some time.
What's known is that the hall  was packed far beyond its capacity.
Licensed to hold a maximum of  150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the  fire hit.
The crowd was mostly teen-agers and mostly immigrants or  children of immigrant parents.
They had come for a dance organized  by eight party-arrangers whom police have not identified; the hall  was rented by the organizers from the local Macedonian immigrant association.
Officials said the dead and injured were of 19 nationalities, including  Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, as well as people  from the current and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American  countries.
Identifying the dead was a wrackingly slow process, forcing  relatives and friends already exhausted with dread to wait for hours  at hospitals.
Only 18 of the dead had been identified by midday Saturday.
``The identification is hard because they have no driver's licenses  or other documents _ they were so young,'' said Kerstin Einarsson  of Sahlgrenska Hospital, the largest in the city of 435,000 residents  about 300 miles (500 kilometers) west of Stockholm.
The worst previous  Swedish fire disaster in modern history was in 1978 in Boraas, when  20 people died in a hotel fire.
Forensic experts examining heavily burned bodies were able Saturday  to identify more of the 60 young people who died in a dance hall fire,  but the catastrophe's most tormenting question was still unanswered.
How could it happen; what caused the flames that raced through a hall  packed far beyond capacity, blocking one of the exits and forcing  panicked teen-agers to flee down the one remaining staircase and leap  out of second-story windows? ''
As long as the technicians haven't  established the cause of the fire, we don't know if it's arson or  not,'' Goteborg chief prosecutor Ulf Noren said Saturday evening.
Earlier in the day, Noren had said it was a ''50-50'' chance that  the fire was arson, prompting wide speculation that authorities had  tracked down new clues.
But Noren later retracted the remark, saying  he'd meant only that no possibilities were being excluded.
As investigators  worked to find the cause, examiners identified another 22 of the bodies,  bringing the total to 40, and officials said 49 people were released  from hospital.
Of the 162 people who suffered non-fatal injuries in  the Thursday night fire, 76 remain hospitalized.
Most of the victims  were immigrants or of immigrant parentage, from countries including  Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Ethiopia and current and former Yugoslavia.
The  first call alerting authorities to the fire was made in heavily accented  Swedish and that, combined with noise and the caller's distress, delayed  the fire squads' response by several minutes.
Per-Olof Ortarsen of  Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand  that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going  on and where to send fire trucks.
The first fire trucks and rescue  squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received,  Ortarsen told a news conference.
He and other officials declined to  comment on whether a quicker response could have saved any of the  mostly immigrant victims.
But the minutes of delay felt endless to  those caught in the terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily  of what they saw as a slow and even obstructive response.
``No help.
No police.
No firemen,'' 17-year-old Zuhir Hersi, one of the disc  jockeys at the bash said Friday, hours after the blaze exploded.
``Just  kids helping kids.''
And once the squads arrived, the kids were then  blocked from helping, they say.
``We could have saved more young people  if only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as  saying by the newspaper Expressen.
On Saturday, hundreds of people  stood quietly outside the gutted building amid flowers and candles  as they attempted to come to grips with catastrophe.
In the parking  lot that a day before had been a tumult of ambulances and screams,  mourners had laid a 30-meter-long (100-foot-long) pile of bouquets,  candles and cards of remembrance.
The cards' inscriptions were brief  and the people who  stood reading them also had few words.
``I just wanted to show my  sympathy.
I think about them.
There's nothing else we can do,'' said  Caroline Ericsson, who didn't know any of the fire's victims. ''
It's  damn difficult,'' said Connie Mesfin, who said she lost a friend in  the blaze.
Lasse Gustafsson, a former Goteborg firefighter severely  disfigured in an explosion, also came to the club site to try to show  the victims' relatives and friends that spirit can help them pull  through despair.
``I can't give them hope.
Consolation is enough,''  he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances at his scars.
Many of  those injured in the blaze may have to endure similar shocked looks  the rest of their lives.
Authorities say the explosive fire quickly  raised the temperature in the hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F).
The hall  was packed far beyond its capacity.
Licensed to hold a maximum of  150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the  fire hit.
One of the two exit stairways was blocked by fire and there  were conflicting statements from witnesses as to whether the fire  came up the stairs from a lower level, or whether it spread there  after breaking out in the second-floor rooms.
The worst previous fire  disaster in modern Sweden was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died  in a hotel fire.
Goteborg, Sweden's second-largest city with about  435,000 people, is 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of Stockholm.
The New York Yankees prevailed in the sixth game of the American League playoffs to win over the Cleveland Indians and advanced to their second World Series play in three years.
In the National League, the San Diego Padres won its series over the Atlanta Braves to ensure its place in the World Series.
Enthusiasm is high on both sides as 650 padres fans shaved their heads in a radio promotion raffle for a ticket to the games.
Yankees Chuck Knoblauch, worried about errors in the playoffs, was greeted with a standing ovation as the first game opened.
Knoblauch, along with teammate Martinez cinched the first game with homerun hits in the 7th inning.
The San Diego Padres, excited about the prospect of winning the NLCS playoff and of playing the Yankees in the World Series, have gone bonkers.
Some 680 shaved their heads for a raffle to win playoff skybox seats.
NY fans, however, are subdued about the Yankees prospects of a collective batting slump (namely by Knoblauch and Martinez), Strawberry's surgery recovery, record-setter Williams' team loyalty, and the memory of the fallibility of umpires.
The Yankees have a edge in pitching and defense, and their record of excellence encouraged everyone to expect victory.
In fact in the Series opener, Knoblauch and Martinez power-hit the Yankees to a win.
The Yankees won the 1st game of the 1998 World Series when Chuck Knoblauch and Tino Martinez redeemed themselves after an early error and a bad batting season.
The Yankees had the best defense in baseball and set a League record for season wins.
Among Yankee players, Darryl Strawberry sat out after cancer surgery and best League batter Bernie Williams considered leaving the team next year.
The World Series' importance grew after the introduction of league championships and 2-layered playoffs.
Imperfect umpires can get in the way of play and make wrong calls.
Widely diverse San Diego fans were excited to have the Padres in the first World Series since 1984.
Star second baseman Chuck Knoblauch and power hitter Tino Martinez were the heroes in the Yankees' win over the Padres in Game 1 of the 1998 World Series.
Knoblauch, who had made a game-losing error in Game 2 of the ALCS, hit a three-run homer off reliever Donne Wall in the seventh inning to tie the score, 5-5.
Martinez, who is batting a puny.187 in post-season play with the Yankees, later hit a grand slam.
Ace pitcher Kevin Brown, viewed by many as the Padres' best hope for a series upset, had started the game.
The Yanks, hoping for a second title in the last three years, are playing without Darryl Strawberry who underwent cancer surgery on Oct. 3 .
A strong sign that this city is going bonkers for the Padres came  Friday morning when 680 fans agreed to shave their heads for a radio  promotion raffle in return for a 1-in-680 chance at skybox tickets  for post-season play.
``This was more a show of support for the team  than it was for the one ticket,'' said Tommy Sablan, producer of the  ``Jeff and Jer'' show.
``It was symbolic of the efforts of the bald  Tony Gwynn, Wally Joyner, Greg Vaughn, Jim Leyritz.
About  a thousand people showed up _ men, women and children.
We had 10 barbers  and 20 hairdressers and it took six hours for the lines to either  get buzzed or straight-razored.
``We were shocked at the turnout.
But this is a bandwagon town.
`Buy the ticket on the day of the concert'  type public.
You'll see an even bigger bandwagon on Monday when they've  won and then hopefully we play the Yankees and it's a real World Series.''
After the Padres beat the Braves, 3-0, in Game 2 of the National League  Championship Series on Thursday night in Atlanta to take a two-game  lead in the four-of-seven-game series, San Diego fans began gearing  up for a shot at the World Series in more traditional ways.
It would  be the team's first World Series appearance since 1984, and in the  downtown business district Friday, marquees and banners read ``Go  Padres'' and a lunch-hour rally was attended by several hundred fans.
The Padres set an attendance record of 2,555,901 this season, up a  half-million from last year and nearly a million and a half from three  years ago.
It stemmed in part from an effort by John Moores, the Padres  owner, and Larry Lucchino, the team's president, to put family entertainment  in the park after they bought the team in December 1994.
``This is  a more diversified group of fans than I saw in Atlanta,'' Lucchino  said.
``Their crowd seemed yuppified.
We're proud of our three generations  of families who come to the games.''
Donna McMahon, a 63-year-old  homemaker from La Jolla, has been a fan since she was 10 and the Pacific  Coast League Padres played at Lane Field near the harbor.
She would  take a streetcar after school to meet her father, and he would buy  bleacher seats.
Later, she brought her four children to Jack Murphy  Stadium for the National League Padres when 2,500 people was a crowd.
Now, she brings her grandchildren to a sold-out Qualcomm Stadium.
``There are different groups in the stands,'' she said, ``the upper  class, the middle class, the business person, the beer-drinking fan,  the children, all of the Mexican fans from across the border.
We are  true fans _ all of us.''
San Diego Mayor Susan Golding agrees, while  also giving credit to the balmy weather.
``Padre fans are a cross-section  from all over the county,'' she said.
``Downtown, suburban, rural,  east, north, ranchers and farmers to high-tech engineers, yuppies  to the new kids _ the X generation.
A lot from across the border.
The Padres are extremely popular in Tijuana.
We do have the perfect  weather for a long baseball season.
Playing in the World Series in  October has got to be better than in New York.''
Carlos Carrion, who  was born in San Diego and has been a baseball fan for 25 years, brings  his 10- and 8-year-old sons to the stadium.
``This is a great chance  to let my children see the players work,'' Carrion said.
``They can  look up to these guys and understand their character and their work  ethic.''
The Padres ticket office estimates that on average, more  than 15,000 fans in the 65,000-seat stadium are Latin Americans from  San Diego, Baja California or the state of Sonora.
The Padres have  the first major league baseball souvenir store in Tijuana.
The moment of truth for Chuck Knoblauch came in the bottom of the  first inning when his name was announced at Yankee Stadium for the  first time since he neglected to chase down that memorable loose ball  last Wednesday.
There were no boos.
It was a very warm ovation.
They  liked him.
They really liked him.
Knoblauch exhaled.
Knoblauch had  emphasized before the game that he was concerned about winning and  rumbling into the World Series, not about the fans.
But it surely  made Knoblauch feel at home when he realized that the fans had forgiven  him.
Victories, more than time, had healed the malice toward Knoblauch  and he could play second base without earplugs.
When the Yankees defeated  the Indians, 9-5, in Game 6 on Tuesday night to advance to their second  World Series in three years, Knoblauch was easily the most relieved  player on the field.
The awful mistake that he had made in Game 2  would be forgotten.
The Yankees had won the pennant, and Knoblauch  was celebrating as much as anyone.
``To have them act like that toward  me was tremendous,'' said Knoblauch, about the response that he received.
``It was a great feeling, and it really helped me out.''
Knoblauch  was wearing a cap that declared the Yankees champions of the American  League in 1998; Champagne dripped off the brim as he spoke.
He did  not look up, but continued to talk about how he had learned a lot  by being vilified after making a mistake that Little Leaguers are  expected not to make.
``Just to face things and take it like a man  and answer all the questions, although they're tough,'' Knoblauch  said.
``You see what you're made of when you have to bounce back from  something like that.
That's basically what I learned.''
If the Yankees  had lost the ALCS, even some of Knoblauch's teammates had said that  he would be branded as the villain for failing to pursue the ball  that glanced off Travis Fryman's back while he was running outside  the baseline.
Knoblauch had argued with the umpire while the go ahead  run scored from first and the Indians won, 4-1.
Now Knoblauch can  watch television and read the newspapers again without getting queasy.
``That's huge for him,'' David Cone said.
``That's huge for me.
I  let them back into the game, and that would have been a tough one  if they would have come back and beat us.
And Knobbie, I'm sure he's  feeling a lot better now.''
Knoblauch, who had two hits in five at-bats,  was working on his second bottle of Champagne five minutes after reporters  were allowed into the clubhouse.
He flashed the sort of smile that  he had not shown too much recently and, now that the Yankees are in  the World Series, Knoblauch should expect to be teased often about  his mistake.
``Maybe if we go all the way, we'll do that,'' Derek  Jeter said.
``I don't know what I'll say, but I'll think of something  good.''
Hours after Darryl Strawberry was released from Columbia Presbyterian  Medical Center Friday, he spoke happily about being able to play with  his two young children, joked about eating a small amount of chicken  and potatoes and sounded relieved to be at home in Fort Lee, N.J.,  instead of in a hospital.
``I'm really feeling good,'' said Strawberry,  in a telephone interview.
``It's nice to be home with the kids and  to just kick back.
That's all that I'm going to do.
This feels good.''
Strawberry, who underwent surgery to remove a cancer from his colon  on Oct. 3, said he will remain in New Jersey for another 10 or 12  days before returning home to Rancho Mirage, Calif.
The 36-year old  outfielder, who lost a significant amount of weight from his 215-pound  frame, said he does not have enough strength to attend any of the  World Series games and is content watching his teammates play the  Padres on television.
``My heart is with them,'' said Strawberry,  who spoke to several Yankees after they won the American League championship.
``I'm just going to relax at home and watch the game.
I'm looking  forward to it.
I may not be there, but it'll feel like I am.''
Paul  O'Neill echoed the sentiments of many Yankees by saying, ``Everything  we're going through is game.
This is his life.
Any time we get some  good news about Darryl it's uplifting.
We're all praying for him.''
Since cancerous cells were found in one of the 36 lymph nodes removed  from his abdomen during the operation, Strawberry said doctors told  him he will need six months of chemotherapy treatment once he returns  to California.
The 36-year-old outfielder said doctors told him he  will need one treatment of at least one hour a week.
``I was never  scared,'' said Strawberry.
``I was more emotional than anything.
At  the time of it, I had played for a while with this.
I wanted to keep  playing because I knew we were going to get into the World Series.''
At that point, Strawberry stopped and laughed, probably because the  Yankees had made it to the World Series as he expected.
``I wanted  to be there because that's what you play for,'' said Strawberry.
``I  don't think that I was ever scared.
It's something that I wanted to  deal with head on.
I talked to Eric Davis about the chemo.
He said  it's not as bad as some people say.''
Although the discovery of cancer  in one lymph node proved that the cancer had spread, Strawberry remained  optimistic about his future and said, ``It didn't worry me.
I got  all the information from the doctors.
One out of 36 is good.
It wasn't  spreading.
It didn't run off and get crazy like cancer can.''
When  Strawberry was released from the hospital in a wheelchair Friday,  a few hundred fans who had congregated chanted, ``Darryl, Darryl.''
Strawberry, who struggled not to cry, hugged a few nurses, thanked  everyone for supporting him, then rose from the wheelchair and carefully  entered a car.
``Wow, I never thought this day would come,'' Strawberry  said.
``But it has.''
Unlike David Wells, Saturday night's starter  in the World Series who predicted the Yankees would throttle the Padres  in five games, Strawberry refused to make a prediction about whether  he will soon be getting his third World Series ring.
But Strawberry,  who is still hopeful about returning to play in 1999, sounded very  confident in the 1998 Yankees, who are wearing his number 39 on the  back of their caps as inspiration.
``They look really good,'' said  Strawberry.''
It's not going to be easy, but I think they're ready.
The best thing about making it to the World Series is you know you  don't have to go anywhere else after that.
You've made it to that  point and then you go do the best you can do.
That's what it's all  about.''
The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 17: It is  fitting that this most memorable of baseball seasons should conclude  with a World Series that opens Saturday night in Yankee Stadium, the  aging but still grand cathedral of the sport.
Bedecked in bunting  and banners, the revered ballpark always elevates the game with its  aura of history and accomplishment.
That makes it the perfect venue  for part of a championship series that will determine whether the  1998 Yankees are one of the greatest teams of the modern era, or just  a talented squad that owned the regular season but folded in the World  Series.
New Yorkers are a boisterous, boastful bunch, and the patter  of the city this week has been loud and arrogant, or so it must seem  to anyone venturing here from San Diego to root for the Padres.
The  word on the sidewalks and in the subways is that the Padres don't  measure up against the Yankees.
Sure, they have lethal starting pitchers  in Kevin Brown and Andy Ashby, and one of the game's best closers  in Trevor Hoffman, not to mention prolific hitters like Tony Gwynn  and Greg Vaughn, who is hobbling but still dangerous.
But how is that  a match for the Yankees' World Series starting rotation of David Wells,  Orlando Hernandez, David Cone and Andy Pettitte, bullpen flamethrower  Mariano Rivera, plus the deepest batting order in baseball?
Yet the  truth is that Yankees fans are terrified the team will crumple.
Baseball  fans, even Yankee fans, can spend a lifetime waiting to see a home  team of historic caliber, and this Yankee team will not reach that  sanctified status unless it ends its record-setting season by winning  the World Series.
The doubts keep creeping up.
The team was pitiful  at the plate through most of the playoffs.
Tino Martinez, the top  run producer, has been in a numbing slump.
Bernie Williams, the American  League batting champ, hit well in the pennant series against the Cleveland  Indians, but has seemed distracted by personal matters.
Shane Spencer,  the rookie slugging sensation of September, hasn't turned out to be  the new Mr. October.
Pettitte has been struggling since August.
The  curious thing about this team, which won more games during the regular  season than any team in American League history, is how quiet and  unobtrusive it can be.
It sports no dominant superstar, no swaggering  clubhouse leader, no one who seems to belong in New York.
So when  the Yankees start to drift on the field, fans tend to fear the team  might simply fade away.
Until the Indians surged temporarily ahead  in the playoffs, the Yankees had faced no serious test of resiliency  all season.
New Yorkers can already taste that ticker-tape parade  up Broadway.
But behind every mighty cheer at the stadium Saturday  night will lurk the fear that when the curtain falls on the season,  an unheralded and unlegendary team from San Diego will be the one  that is remembered.
YANKEES Pitching The starting pitching enabled the Yankees to advance  past Cleveland in the American League Championship Series.
David Wells  is 7-1 in his career in the postseason and he should have an additional  edge against a Padres' lineup that is generally less effective against  left-handed pitching.
Orlando Hernandez has four terrific pitches,  pitched seven shutout innings in the pivotal Game 4 of the ALCS and  earned the start in Game 2 of this series.
David Cone should benefit  from six days' worth of rest when he starts Game 3, as well as being  able to pitch in warm Southern California.
Mariano Rivera's stuff  might be as good as it has been all year, and Mike Stanton continues  to be a dominant postseason pitcher.
Reasons for concern: the erratic  Andy Pettitte, who needs a home-plate umpire to call strikes on pitches  low and away, and Jeff Nelson, who lost his command in his last brief  outing.
Offense There were signs in the ALCS that the offense is coming  Chuck Knoblauch is getting on base consistently,  Derek Jeter is back to driving the ball to right field and through  the middle, Bernie Williams had three hits in Game 6, and Scott Brosius  has been a consistent force at the bottom of the lineup.
But the Yankees  do have holes: Chili Davis will be hard-pressed to catch up to the  fastballs of Kevin Brown and Andy Ashby, and Tino Martinez's postseason  funk is a problem.
The Yankees could use a contribution from Jorge  Posada, who will start in Games 1 and 2 and may get a chance to drive  pitches low in the strike zone, where he can hit with power.
Defense  The Yankees have the best defense in baseball, excellent up the middle  with Jeter and Knoblauch, and at third with Brosius.
Nobody's really  taken advantage of the fact that Williams has a poor arm in center  field, but rest assured that Ken Caminiti, Steve Finley and Greg Vaughn  will try.
The Indians did expose the fact that the Yankees' pitchers  have trouble preventing baserunners from stealing from second to third  base.
Baserunning The Yankees run well as they take extra bases, particularly  Paul O'Neill, Brosius, Jeter and Knoblauch going first-to-third; Williams  can make mistakes.
The Yankees probably won't be able to steal against  Kevin Brown, who has an effective slide step, but they could be aggressive  against Andy Ashby, or the combination of Sterling Hitchcock and Jim  Leyritz.
PADRES Hitting Except for Jim Leyritz, no one in the San  Diego lineup is particularly hot or particularly frightening at the  moment.
Tony Gwynn hasn't been as consistent as he usually is, Ken  Caminiti and Greg Vaughn have been streaky.
But the Padres are a veteran  team capable of putting the ball in play, getting runners on base  and then moving them along, and so long as they are getting exceptional  pitching, that's all they really need.
Quilvio Veras, the leadoff  hitter, is adept at drawing walks and Steve Finley, who has become  more pull conscious in the last two years, could try to take aim at  the right field stands in Yankee Stadium.
Vaughn's power could be  a factor if the Yankees' pitchers don't jam him enough to keep him  from leaning over the plate.
Pitching Kevin Brown is the best pitcher  in this series, capable of winning three games if necessary, should  Padres manager Bruce Bochy choose to start him in Games 1, 4 and 7.
But at some point, San Diego will need a big outing from either Andy  Ashby or Sterling Hitchcock.
When Ashby's right, he's hitting the  corners with his sinking fastball and his slider, and when his command  is suspect, he gets pounded.
Hitchcock used his split-fingered fastball  to great effectiveness against right-handed batters in the first two  rounds of the playoffs, but the Yankees' left-handed hitters may cause  him some concern.
San Diego's middle relief is the weakest aspect  of the team, with Randy Myers and Mark Langston from the left side  (the stuff of each has waned).
But if a lead can be delivered into  the hands of closer Trevor Hoffman, he'll keep it.
Defense They mostly  catch the ball and avoid mistakes, though they are unspectacular.
Shortstop Chris Gomez and the second baseman Veras are adept at turning  double plays, and Caminiti won a Gold Glove at third base last year;  Wally Joyner has good hands at first; the center fielder Steve Finley  is extremely quick in tracking down base hits and returning the ball  to the infield.
Tony Gwynn's range is better toward the right field  line, not nearly as good on balls hit in the gaps.
The Yankees will  be able to run on the arm of Vaughn in left field.
Baserunning Veras  can steal bases (24) this year, and Finley can in a tight spot, as  well.
In general, however, the Padres are a slow, plodding team, though  Caminiti and Vaughn are good at going first-to-third, and Gwynn won't  make mistakes on the bases.
PITCHING TO THE PADRES Quilvio Veras:  A switch-hitter who has more power right-handed; should try to pitch  him down-and-in with breaking balls when he's hitting right-handed,  jam him with fastballs when he's batting left-handed.
Steve Finley:  A left-handed hitter who likes to pull the ball.
Left-handers like  David Wells can beat him with breaking balls low and outside.
Tony  Gwynn: When he's hot, he's impossible.
When he's not hitting well,  he can be anxious early in the count, and he should be fed breaking  balls out of the strike zone.
Greg Vaughn: Big-time power on anything  high and over the plate.
Because he likes to pull the ball, you must  pitch him on the outer edge, occasionally jamming him to keep him  honest.
Ken Caminiti: More power right-handed, a better hitter left-handed.
These days, he's a good lowball hitter and can be beat by fastballs  up in the zone.
Wally Joyner: With runners on base, he'll try to jump  on a fastball early in the count.
Is not a strong hitter and can be  jammed.
Chris Gomez: Like Derek Jeter, likes to hit pitches inside  out, to right field and through the middle.
He can hit with power  if you make a mistake with a breaking ball.
Ruben Rivera: An impatient  hitter who will chase pitches out of the strike zone.
Carlos Hernandez:  Looks for the first-pitch fastball in the upper half of the strike  zone.
Can struggle against breaking balls.
Jim Leyritz: No apparent  holes right now, can hit fastballs in and away.
Best bet is to get  ahead in the count and try to get him to chase breaking balls.
PITCHING  TO THE YANKEES Chuck Knoblauch: Hard throwers like to jam him with  fastballs because he stands on top of the plate, which is why he gets  hit so often.
Derek Jeter: Sometimes he has a tendency to chase pitches  at his feet, but if you don't get the ball in far enough, he can hammer  the ball over the wall in right.
Paul O'Neill: The Yankees' best pure  hitter, he sometimes will chase fastballs up and away, particularly  after there is one strike.
Bernie Williams: A switch-hitter who has  trouble resisting chest-high fastballs.
When he lays off them, he  is a much better hitter, and he did this in the last game of the Cleveland  series.
Chili Davis: Has a great eye and will work a pitcher deep  into a count, but he can be overpowered with fastballs above his belt.
Cheats some now to get his bat started, making him vulnerable to off-speed  pitches.
Tino Martinez: Nothing seems right at the moment.
Is anxious  and chases pitches out of the strike zone when he falls behind in  the count, and isn't taking advantage of mistakes when they're made.
Scott Brosius: A great breaking ball hitter, but he can also drive  a fastball a long way when he anticipates, as Cleveland's Charles  Nagy now knows.
Jorge Posada: When batting left-handed, he fares very  poorly against splitters, curveballs and sliders.
Ricky Ledee: Like  all young hitters, he has a tendency to expand the strike zone and  chase pitches out of the strike zone after falling behind in the count.
Kevin Brown likely will attack him aggressively.
SATURDAY'S PITCHERS  Kevin Brown: Best sinking fastball in the game (91-93) mph, a four-seam  fastball of 95-97 mph to throw high in the strike zone, a slider that  breaks down and away from right-handed batters, and a forkball that  dives at 88-89 mph.
Holds runners well.
David Wells: Aggressive, aggressive,  aggressive, challenging hitters with fastballs.
His curveball can  be exceptional, and his changeup has improved.
Throw strikes: Allowed  as many home runs (29) as walks (29), but has not allowed a three-run  homer or a grand slam all year.
The last time they were seen on the field at Yankee Stadium, they  were inadvertently influencing the outcome of the game that sent the  Cleveland Indians home and the Yankees to the World Series.
That's  not to say the umpires will mess up in the World Series, but they  have shown they are eminently capable of interfering with the natural  progression of postseason games.
All right, so Ted Hendry won't be  in the World Series; the umpires' collective bargaining agreement  with the leagues does not allow an umpire to work both a league championship  series and the World Series.
Joe Brinkman won't be here either, even  though the agreement does allow for an umpire to work both a division  series and the World Series.
The three American League umpires who  are on the six-man World Series crew did work in the first round of  the playoffs.
One of them, Richie Garcia, will be the crew chief and  behind the plate in Saturday night's opener at Yankee Stadium.
Gene  Budig, the AL president, Friday called Garcia, a 24-year veteran,  one of the league's ``most respected umpires.''
But after Saturday  night, Garcia will move to right field Sunday night for Game 2.
Now  why does that combination sound familiar, Richie Garcia and right  field?
Ah yes, the last time Garcia worked a post-season series at  Yankee Stadium, he was the umpire in Game 1 of the league championship  no name, please;  he has been over-glorified enough _ reached over the fence and caught  Derek Jeter's fly ball just as Tony Tarasco, Baltimore's right fielder,  prepared to catch it.
Garcia ruled no interference, that it was a  home run, then said oops after watching a television replay clearly  showing interference.
Too late.
The call helped the Yankees win the  first game and set the tone for the series.
``Even though he made  a mistake, you know you have the best out there,'' a baseball official,  speaking on the condition of anonymity, said.
That knowledge comes  as small consolation to the Orioles.
Budig, too, acknowledged that  umpires, like players and managers, aren't perfect.
``Major league  umpires are skilled at what they do, but they are human,'' he said  in a telephone interview.
``Day in and day out they do a very good  job for Major League Baseball.
Rounds one and two have been difficult,  but that happens from time to time.''
The umpires were so human in  the American League playoffs that it happened from time to time to  time to time.
The Cleveland Indians suffered the brunt of the fallibility  of the umpires.
``We had a highlight reel of umpires getting knocked  down by baseballs,'' general manager John Hart said after the Indians'  final game against the Yankees.
``The umpires didn't lose the game  for us, but we had our share of controversies in two playoff series  with umpires.''
In the division series against Boston, Brinkman, the  plate umpire, was so bad with his calls on pitches and plays at the  plate that he immediately provoked disputes that led to his ejecting  of Mike Hargrove, the Indians' manager, three pitches into Game 2,  and Dwight Gooden, their starting pitcher, 19 pitches later.
Hendry  was right or wrong, depending on one's point of view, for his noncall  of interference on Travis Fryman in the 12th inning of Game 2 of the  ALCS.
That ruling went in favor of the Indians.
Little else did.
In  Game 4, Jeter was stealing second in the fifth inning when the on-target  throw from Sandy Alomar Jr. hit Jim McKean, who jumped to try to get  out of the way but instead kicked the ball into right field.
A batted  ball, Omar Vizquel's line drive, struck Hendry in Game 6.
But the  worst call of Game 6 was Hendry's on a force play at second base.
Hendry called Bernie Williams safe, ruling that Vizquel's foot came  off the base before he caught the ball.
Members of the Yankees indicated  Friday that they, too, thought the call was wrong.
``I don't know,''  Williams said when asked what he thought, ``but I'll take it.
It was  a big play.''
But did he think he was out?
``I'd rather not comment  about that,'' he said.
``It will stir a lot of controversy.
I don't  want to get into that.''
When a player believes he was safe, he says  so and doesn't worry about any subsequent controversy.
If Williams  was implying that he thought he was out, another member of the Yankees  said he had no doubt that Williams was out.
``I wasn't sure at first,''  this uniformed member of the team said, ``but when I saw it was Hendry,  I said uh-oh.
I also thought Omar is so smooth you'd think he wouldn't  come off the bag.
Then I saw the replay.
He was out.''
The game today  is faster than it used to be, this observer said.
The umpires have  to be sharper.
Maybe Garcia, Dale Scott and Tim Tschida from the American  League, and Jerry Crawford, Dana DeMuth and Mark Hirschbeck from the  National League, will be as sharp as an 18th century French guillotine  in these four to seven games.
Leonard Coleman, the NL president, said  he thought his umpires were first-rate in the division and league  series and added that he has ``three splendid umpires'' working the  World Series.
Budig said: ``The World Series crew is proven and first-rate.
We have total confidence in them.''
The umpires should let the players  make the errors and the managers the bad decisions.
Then everyone  will talk about the players and managers and not the umpires.
As Bernie Williams starts what could be his final series with the  Yankees in Game 1 of the World Series at Yankee Stadium Saturday night,  he wants to do it with a free mind.
Free of worrying about his extremely  uncertain future and an undisclosed personal matter that has made  this post-season as perplexing as it has been pleasing.
But it is  not easy to keep the mind uncluttered.
Williams does not know if he  will sign with the Yankees and return to center field next season,  because he wants to test free agency.
There is a good chance the Yankees  will not offer him the most lavish contract, so Williams might be  forced to decide between the fattest paycheck and a new situation  in the baseball city of his choice or a pretty fat paycheck and a  familiar situation in the Bronx.
Scott Boras, Williams' agent, compared  his client with players in the $10 million-a-year bracket last season,  so that price tag has surely escalated after Williams won the American  League batting title with a .339 average while drilling 26 homers  and knocking in 97 runs.
Williams was asked if he agreed with the  theory that other teams will outbid the Yankees.
``I do not know,''  said Williams, who has been aloof during this post-season, but has  declined to discuss why.
``And I'm thinking about this a little more  than I would like to.
I would like to keep my focus on the series.''
It is not an issue Williams or the Yankees wants to study Saturday  or in the coming days, because the team is four victories away from  a championship.
Still, it is an issue that hovers over the Yankees  as ominously as the owner George Steinbrenner hovers over general  manager Brian Cashman.
``It's a tough thing,'' Cashman said about  balancing the excitement of being in the World Series with the reality  of trying to re-sign Williams.
``You know the ugliness of the future  is right in front of you.''
Although Williams has been adamant about  not discussing the future, he relented slightly Friday.
When a reporter  asked him what the reasons would be for staying with the Yankees,  Williams' answer included an escape clause.
``Just the fact that I've  been here my whole career,'' Williams said.
``That has a lot to do  with it.
The relationships that I've come to know during the years,  I think it would be very hard, but not impossible, to start from scratch  somewhere else.''
Williams continued: ``But I think the reality of  the game in this day and age is things happen.
You can't really write  things in stone that they're going to happen.
People get traded.
People  become free agents and go to other teams.
I have to make a decision  really thinking about all the people I'm accountable for.''
When Williams  was asked what better situation could a player have than being the  center fielder for the Yankees, winning a batting crown and being  in the World Series, the 30-year-old was stumped.
``Wow, that's pretty  good right there,'' Williams said.
``It's funny you mention that,  because I really haven't thought about any of that.
I think, at some  point in the off season, I was going to sit down and think, wow, it  wasn't a bad year at all.''
While Cashman would not discuss financial  matters, another Yankee official said the team will not offer Williams  unless Steinbrenner gets generous  after a possible championship.
It is more likely that the Yanks would  offer Williams in the $10 million-a-year range.
``I'd hate to have  to speculate on something at this point,'' Cashman said.
``We'll give  it our best effort to sign him at a level that we're comfortable with.
Hopefully, that will be enough.
Then we'll have a marriage.
If not,  we'll have a divorce.''
While Williams has earned the right to become  a free agent and pursue the contract he wants in the city he wants,  he has interesting choices to make.
When a reporter asked Williams  how he would respond to someone who suggested that he accept less  from the Yankees to remain in a city where he is popular, where he  likes his teammates and manager, and where the team has been in the  post-season for four straight years, he did not hesitate to answer.
``My response to that would be it's not the time right now to start  thinking about that,'' Williams said.
``If I start thinking about  that, it'll distract me to what I need to do in the World Series.''
Williams then talked about how the Yankees are at the end of a remarkable  season and how he did not want his situation to disrupt that.
But,  with Williams' status uncertain, he was asked if the next four to  seven games would be bittersweet, since he could be ending a 13-year  association with the Yankees.
``I don't want to talk about that,''  Williams said.
``I'm going to have a lot of fun out there.
I'm going  to go all out.''
Then Williams walked away from the interview.
Talk about high expectations.
It's not just the man from Tampa who  has them anymore.
Knowing their baseball as well as they do, everybody  in the Joe Torre family passed up tickets for the divisional series  and the league championship series as just so much parsley on the  plate of life.
``The pressure was on to get to the World Series, so  I can see all those people,'' Torre, the Yankees' manager, was saying  before New York went out to play the here-we-are, let's-go-for-it  San Diego Padres in the Stadium Saturday night.
Now that the Yankees  are in the Series, their Florida-based owner and their fans and they  themselves can see nothing more appropriate than four more victories.
Anything less than 125 would feel like emptiness.
But why should the  Yankees be any different from the six teams that already fell off  the bus to this World Series?
The gloom and doom in the six other  cities will not compare to the letdown that would grip New York and  the owner's insatiable little heart should the Yanks come up short.
The three-tiered playoff system has practically turned baseball into  football, where the survival-of-the-fittest mentality produces one  exalted Super Bowl champion and a league full of chumps and losers,  condemned to a nether world of Parcells-like demons kicking them in  their sore spots for eternity.
The World Series used to be a short  and sweet reward for excellence, but that was when there were eight  teams per league, and the winners met in daylight in early October.
Even if the Yankees clubbed my poor Brooklyn Dodgers into submission  once again, well, there was always next year.
But in 1969, baseball  began league championship series, and in 1995 it began a two-layered  playoff system.
The World Series is still different, which is why  we should all resist the babble of ``post-season records'' flung at  us by the hyperactive computers and the hyperactive broadcasters from  the dozens of different networks that carry baseball.
The World Series  is still a competition between one league that encourages pitchers  to be athletes and another league relatively devoid of strategy.
Somehow  the ``playoffs'' leave just about everybody feeling inadequate.
Think  about it.
The Houston Astros are going around feeling they cannot  perform in the post-season.
The Texas Rangers are sulking because  they had the best hitting in the league and could hardly touch Yankee  pitching when it counted.
In Chicago, the glory of winning a special  playoff for the wild-card spot and Sammy Sosa's 66 home runs has been  pre-empted.
The very city that beat the Cubs for the 1969 eastern  title held a parade for Sosa Saturday in the canyons where Lindbergh  and John Glenn and the 1969 Mets were once hailed.
Speaking of indignity,  there are the Red Sox, whose occasional qualification for the playoffs  is merely a signal that nothing good can come of it.
In Atlanta, the  team of the '90s has won exactly one World Series, and now it is up  to management to keep repeating that: ``The main goal is to get to  the Series.
This is a recorded announcement.
This is a recorded announcement.''
In Cleveland, the fans had to live  with the phrase ``Nineteen forty-eight!''
being chanted at the Indians  in the Bronx as the Yankees put the Indians out of misery.
That leaves  the Padres as the only team with virtually nothing to lose.
This can  be good, or it can be bad.
Bruce Bochy, the manager, a reserve on  the 1984 San Diego World Series team, has said: ``A lot of the players  on that team said, looking back, we wish we would have had a little  different attitude instead of just saying, `Hey, we are in the World  Series.'
And this year, I think you will see the players out there  playing to win.''
Torre recalled being the underdog in 1996, but he  said his Yankees felt they could beat the Braves.
``I am sure that  is the way the Padres feel right now, that maybe other people aren't  predicting a lot for them, but I am sure they are for themselves,''  Torre said.
``I think getting here is where the pressure is,'' Torre  added.
``You want to win, but getting to the World Series is so tough  after playing 162 games and getting into post-season and then having  to fight, bite and scratch and everything else to get here.''
Torre  continued: ``You don't think about in spring training that we want  to go and win the World Series.
You want to get to the World Series.
Then you get there, well, you have played well enough and won enough  games, then of course, we want to win.
``As far as legitimizing our  I hate to even think in negative terms, but if San Diego  happens to win the World Series, sure it takes a little bit of the  luster off what we have accomplished by getting here, but I think  that was our goal, initially.''
The key word in that sentence is ``initially.''
The Yankees built an insatiable demand for more victories _ and World  Series tickets in the Torre family.
While they're at it, the Yankees  had better win the whole thing.
They are a victim of their own excellence.
A new shipment of bats arrived for Tino Martinez on Friday, and he  massaged the handles to make sure they were thin enough, knocked on  the barrels and listened for a certain sound and swung them slowly  again and again.
Martinez was so excited about the fresh bats, he  reacted like a Little Leaguer who was wielding an aluminum bat for  the first time.
``You were saving the World Series trees until now,  right?''
Martinez said to the representative from the bat company.
``These are from World Series trees, aren't they?''
Martinez could  joke about the bats being specially designed for the World Series  because the Yankees began their quest for a second title in the past  three years when they play host to the San Diego Padres in Game 1  at Yankee Stadium Saturday night.
Major leaguer players who were watching  on television could not imitate David Letterman and joke about World  Series wood.
Even though Martinez has struggled with numerous bats  during the post-season, he could joke because the Yankees are still  alive for the title.
Martinez is still alive.
For now, Martinez, the  power hitter who has mostly been missing in action, could joke around.
For now.
``You always get a fresh start in the post-season because  it's game to game,'' said Martinez.
``If you win, you've got another  game the next day so you forget about the bad at-bats.
It's easier  to do that in post-season because your next at-bat could be the biggest  at-bat of the season.''
Normally, having Martinez at the plate for  the biggest at-bat of the season would be a pleasing sight to the  Yankees.
But not when the calendar flips to October.
Martinez has  experienced another frustrating post-season.
He is 5 for 30 with 10  strikeouts, no homers and only 1 run batted in for a hitting-starved  team that has batted .229 while still winning 7 of 9 post-season games  because of superior pitching.
Can the Yankees continue to win if Martinez,  their most valuable run producer, is a sometime singles hitter?
``We've  just gotten through two good series,'' said Paul O'Neill.
``The Yankees  won those series.
You don't focus on one guy.
You focus on winning.
The whole team won.''
As much as Joe Torre talked about Martinez needing  one line-drive hit to get him in a groove, the 30-year-old first baseman  is in a career drought in the post-season.
Since joining the Yankees,  Martinez is 20 for 107 (.187) with one homer and 4 RBI in 29 post-season  games.
Those are puny statistics, especially for a player who has  driven in 381 runs in 455 regular season games over the last three  years.
``I would guess that Tino would have a great series,'' O'Neill  said.
``Baseball has a way of evening things out.
You have a bad series,  you come back and have a great series.
In the season, that's easier  to do.
In the post-season, it gets tougher.''
It cannot get much tougher  for Martinez, who was dropped from fifth to sixth in the order during  the American League Championship Series against the Cleveland Indians  and will remain in that spot until further notice.
Martinez has blamed  his paucity of production on impatience and on trying to do too much.
He has sometimes flailed at poor pitches during hitter's counts of  3-1 and 2-0, instead of working the count, and he has admitted that  his previous failures in the post-season have caused him to pursue  the obviously unattainable five-run homer.
Actually, Martinez has  already made some alterations, and he has reached base 7 times in  his last 10 plates appearances on a double, a single, a hit-by-pitch  and 4 walks.
It is not enough to pacify George Steinbrenner, but it  is something for him to cling to.
Until last night, anyway, when Martinez  had to face Kevin Brown, a nasty right-hander who had retired him  in 30 of 34 career at-bats.
``If I was getting good pitches and missing  them, then I'd say I have a bad swing working,'' said Martinez.
``But  I've been swinging at bad pitches.
Right now, I've just got to be  patient and wait.''
The Yankees will wait with him.
They have to.
In the 1996 World Series, Torre started Cecil Fielder over Martinez  at first in Games 3, 4 and 5.
It was a difficult decision because  Martinez had paced the team in RBI while Fielder did not join the  Yankees until July 31.
But the Yankees grabbed all three games so  it worked.
Torre does not have such an attractive replacement this  season in Luis Sojo.
So the Yankees will stay with Martinez, for better  or worse, while he tries to stay positive and finally produce.
``It's  the World Series,'' said Martinez.
``You got to go out there and have  fun with it.
Big games are all big games.
You want to go out there  and enjoy that game and try to do your best to win that game.
You  don't think that you might lose that day.''
Chuck Knoblauch and Tino Martinez were as popular as squeegee men  a week ago, the speculation rampant that one or the other or both  might be exiled if the Yankees' historic year crumbled in the post-season.
Two big hits in the midst of a big inning changed all that Saturday  night in Game 1 of the World Series.
The Yankees trailed San Diego,  5-2, in the seventh inning, but Knoblauch hit a three-run home run  to tie the score, and five batters later, Martinez smashed a grand  slam.
The seven-run explosion rocketed the Yankees to a 9-6 victory  in the opener of the four-of-seven-game series, before 56,712 at Yankee  Stadium.
Orlando Hernandez will pitch against Andy Ashby in Game 2  Sunday night at the Stadium.
Beyond seizing the advantage in the series,  the Yankees were able to neutralize the Padres' ace, Kevin Brown,  driving him from the mound in the seventh.
Brown, seen by many as  San Diego's best hope for a World Series upset, will not pitch again  until Game 4, at the earliest.
Brown was pitching with a three-run  lead after the top of the fifth, when Tony Gwynn and Greg Vaughn banged  back-to-back homers.
One out into the seventh, however, Jorge Posada  hit a single, and Brown walked Ricky Ledee.
Brown, who had thrown  a whopping 64 pitches in the first three innings, went out, and the  reliever Donne Wall came in to face Knoblauch.
This is what the Yankees  have done all season, force a starter from the game in the middle  innings, before exploiting a middle reliever.
Knoblauch, of course,  had earned notoriety for his gaffe in the Game 2 of the American League  Championship Series against Cleveland, standing and waiting for an  interference call as the ball rolled to a stop behind him and the  decisive run scored.
The Yankees came back to win the series, however;  Knoblauch got a reprieve and talked about how much the experience  had helped him.
Facing Wall with a one-ball, no-strike count, Knoblauch  had to duck under a runaway fastball.
Two balls, no strikes.
Wall  had to throw a strike, Knoblauch swung hard and lifted a high fly  down the left-field line.
Off the bat, it did not look like much.
But it kept carrying, Vaughn drifting back in left and looking up,  to see the ball disappear into the stands.
Tie game.
Yankee Stadium  shook.
Knoblauch rounded the bases, crossed home plate and thrust  both arms into the air, yelling to the crowd, like a hyped Olympic  weightlifter who had just successfully hoisted a half-ton.
He stomped  around the dugout, his helmet on, teammates banging on him happily.
When Derek Jeter singled, nobody really noticed.
Wall left the game,  and Mark Langston took over.
Paul O'Neill flied out, and after Jeter  advanced on a wild pitch, Bernie Williams was intentionally walked.
Chili Davis drew a walk.
Bases loaded, once more, with Martinez coming  to the plate, with exactly one run batted in in his first 76 career  at-bats in league championship and World Series games.
With the count  two balls and two strikes, Langston threw a pitch near the outside  corner that he thought should have been a strike.
Instead, Garcia  called it a ball.
Langston glared, snapping at the return throw.
Langston  and Martinez and everyone on the field now understood that with the  bases loaded and a 3-2 count, Langston would have to throw what players  a tasty pitch over the middle.
Martinez ate  up this cookie.
The ball soared into the upper deck in right field,  lifting three years of post-season misery off the back of the Yankees'  first baseman, a grand slam.
The crowd called out Martinez from the  dugout again.
Like Knoblauch, Martinez pumped both arms, and later  the crowd would chant his name, and Martinez would wave his cap.
San  Diego's lead was long gone.
The Yankees had taken a 2-0 lead over  Brown in the second inning, forcing him to throw 32 pitches in the  second.
They loaded the bases with a single and two walks, and Ledee,  the rookie left fielder who is playing because none of Torre's left  fielders have been hitting, pulled a sinking fastball down the right  field line with two outs.
The fans along the foul line stood, some  waving to push the ball fair with the body English, and the ball landed  on the line, skipping off the wall as two runners scored.
The Yankees  had the early edge, they had jumped on Brown, and they had their best  pitcher on the mound.
San Diego's Chris Gomez led off the second inning  with a blooper over shortstop, the ball falling in for a single.
Quilvio  Veras flied to right, Gwynn grounded out and Gomez took second, bringing  Vaughn to the plate.
David Wells got ahead in the count, no balls  and two strikes, with a change-up and a fastball, before trying to  run a fastball inside on Vaughn, who hit 50 home runs during the regular  season.
Vaughn attacked the pitch: a line drive that landed in the  second deck, foul all the way, but a frightening mistake.
Jorge Posada,  the Yankees' catcher, jogged to the mound to re-think the strategy,  perhaps to remind Wells of the conventional wisdom: you must pitch  Vaughn on the outer edge of the plate.
Posada returned to the plate,  called for an outside fastball, Wells threw.
Vaughn's swing was short  and quick, the ball making a click sound off the bat, like a well-struck  golf ball, before carrying over the wall in right-center field.
Tie  game.
Wells retired the first two batters in the fifth inning, before  jamming Veras with an inside fastball.
Veras' bat snapped on contact,  but it was enough to send a looper into short center field, a single.
Gwynn stepped in, having hit a single in his first two at-bats, and  looked for a sign from the third base coach Tim Flannery.
With a runner  on first, he likes to try to pull a ball through the right side of  the infield.
Wells fired a fastball, Gwynn turned on the pitch and  ripped it, a line drive that crashed off the facing of the upper deck  in right field.
The Padres jumped from the dugout, celebrating, as  Wells turned away, disgusted, asking for a new baseball.
He got one,  delivered another fastball, and Vaughn slugged this deep into the  left field stands.
Two pitches, two home runs, the first back-to-back  home runs allowed by Wells since April 30.
San Diego led, 5-2, and  Yankee Stadium was silent.
It would not stay that way.
Budget negotiations between the White House and House Republicans were delayed on several issues.
At issue were provisions that included requiring Federal Health Insurance providers to provide contraceptives to women as Well as a provision to build a road across a wildlife preserve in Alaska.
The contraceptive issue faced an uncertain future while Clinton likely will veto the road.
There is disagreement also on how to spend the funding on education.
This year's budget discussions also have been hampered because it is the first time since budget procedures were established in 1974 that there has been a surplus, preventing agreement on a budget resolution.
Whether to use the 1st surplus in decades for a tax cut, to pay off the national debt, or for new initiatives made the 1998 federal budget negotiations chaotic.
The Oct 1 start of the fiscal year was extended 5 times.
Major issues were census statistical sampling, federal health plan coverage of contraceptives regardless of religious affiliation, and school aid decisions by the federal gov't or local jurisdictions.
Other issues included a Federal Election Commission provision, a road through an Alaskan wildlife refuge, and an airline peanut ban.
Committees crafted the budget document after broad agreement was reached when 8 bills were lumped together.
In 1998, for the first time in decades, the US budget negotiators faced a surplus.
Both sides said this was harder than a deficit situation, but they finally spent $1.7 trillion.
The last seven spending bills were the most difficult and finally were merged into one package.
Controversial issues included health insurance paying for contraception, control of new education allocations, an Alaskan wilderness road, whether the 2000 census would include statistical sampling, and establishing an emergency fund.
Conservatives felt the results favored the liberals, but both sides were satisfied and glad to finish before Election Day and avoid a government shutdown.
After several deadline extensions, Congressional leaders and the White House agreed on an omnibus spending package, the final portion of the $1.7 trillion budget.
It includes more money for education and defense, business tax breaks, and farm aid, as well as funds for Colombia to use in drug interdiction.
To offset the new spending, the surplus will be tapped for $20 billion, to the ire of conservatives.
This year, without the common goal of reducing the deficit, reaching agreement was very difficult.
Policy provisions involving the 2000 census, contraception, and the Alaskan wilderness were also tied to the spending package and were hotly debated.
House and Senate negotiators agreed Thursday to require most federal  health plans to cover prescription contraceptives for women, giving  an unusual victory on Capitol Hill to advocates of abortion rights.
But the future of the measure was in doubt because it was attached  to a spending bill that includes a controversial provision regarding  the Federal Election Commission.
That provision could scuttle the  spending bill, which would finance the Treasury Department and the  Postal Service and which still must be approved by the House and Senate.
The contraceptive measure would require the federal health plans,  which affect 1.2 million female federal employees who are of child-bearing  age, to cover the five methods of contraception that have been approved  birth  control pills, diaphragms, inter-uterine devices, Norplant and Depo-Provera.
Currently, only 19 percent of federal health plans cover those methods.
The House and Senate approved the contraceptive measure earlier this  year.
But the opponents of abortion were furious about the approval  and persuaded Republican leaders to have negotiators reopen discussion  on the matter.
The cost of contraceptives has driven up the out-of-pocket  cost of health care for women.
And many male members of Congress seemed  persuaded to support coverage of contraceptives for women, since almost  all of the 285 federal health plans cover Viagra, the male impotency  drug.
Thursday, with pressure building to resolve the spending bills  before Oct. 9, when temporary financing of the government expires,  the negotiators agreed to include the contraceptive measure in their  conference report on the $13.4 billion bill for the Treasury Department  and Postal service.
Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., who pushed the contraceptive  measure through the House, hailed Thursday's agreement as the first  major accomplishment by abortion rights advocates since the Republicans  took control of Congress in 1994.
She said the negotiators had agreed  to include the measure because in an election year they did not want  to be perceived as opposing contraception or be seen as rejecting  a measure that had passed both the House and Senate.
But many Democrats  said the were upset that the bill contains a provision that is seen  as interfering with the independence of the Federal Election Commission.
That provision would require a four-vote majority among the seven  federal election commissioners every four years to retain the general  counsel and staff director.
The provision is aimed at getting rid  of Lawrence Noble, the current general counsel, who has investigated  the campaign finance practices of groups like the Christian Coalition.
The contraceptive measure is one of four related matters that have  helped stall four spending bills.
The three other bills that are stalled  in part because of abortion-related matters include the agriculture  bill, in which there is a dispute over whether the federal Food and  Drug Administration should use taxpayer money to approve drugs like  RU-486, which induce abortions.
The foreign operations bill is also  stalled over whether to finance international family planning programs  that may also promote abortion, while the labor and health bill is  delayed because of a provision that would block access of minors to  contraception.
Addressing the measure on insurance coverage for contraceptives,  Helen Alvarez, a spokeswoman for the National Conference of Catholic  Bishops, said that the bill was bad policy.
She said contraception  had failed to stem the number of abortions, teen-age pregnancies or  out-of-wedlock births.
``Public-relations-wise, it's a good tactic  for them,'' she conceded, ``but in terms of social policy, this is  a failure.''
Voting mainly on party lines on a question that has become a touchstone  in the debate over development and preservation of wilderness, the  Senate on Thursday approved a gravel road through remote wildlife  habitat in Alaska.
The road, barely 30 miles long, would slice across  the edge of a wildlife refuge and wilderness area on the Aleutian  Peninsula, where it would connect an isolated village called King  Cove to a long-range air strip in the town of Cold Bay.
Without the  road, its backers say, about 700 residents of King Cove must continue  to use unreliable air and boat service in emergencies, often risking  dangerous winds and seas as they seek medical evacuation to Anchorage.
Opponents of the road call the project an unjustifiable precedent  that threatens the seasonal breeding grounds of protected migratory  birds, and they say that improved air or sea service would be a better  alternative.
The vote Thursday, 59-38, was a victory for the state's  congressional delegation.
But with President Clinton likely to veto  the measure, the final outcome may depend on whether its sponsors  can insert the road proposal into a huge spending bill that is likely  to emerge just before Congress heads home for the Nov. 3 elections.
Three Republicans voted against the bill, and six Democrats voted  for it.
The Clinton administration has repeatedly warned that it will  veto a big spending bill if it contains an array of anti-environmental  provisions that are under consideration.
Indeed, the White House seems  to be itching for a partisan fight over environmental priorities.
But while many Republicans in Congress still appear reluctant to engage  in that broad fight, they were willing Thursday to cast their lot  with the Senate's two powerful Alaskans, Ted Stevens and Frank Murkowski,  both Republicans.
A companion bill in the House, sponsored by Rep.  Don Young of Alaska, also a Republican, has not come to the floor.
Even Sen. John Chafee of Rhode Island, a leader of Republican environmentalists,  voted for the road.
Last February Chafee's staff had assembled a score  of environmental lobbyists in his office to plan strategy for opposing  the road, environmental advocates said Thursday.
They speculated that  the senator had changed his position out of deference to the power  of Stevens, who as chairman of the Appropriations Committee exerts  tremendous influence at a time when a dozen spending bills are in  their final stages.
A Chafee aide said Chafee voted reluctantly for  the road after Alaska's senators convinced him of its merits.
Stevens  said in angry tones Thursday that two-thirds of Alaska's land was  off limits to development and that vital health services were being  denied to his state's residents.
``We can't use it without permission  from some bureaucrat who is compelled by extreme environmentalists,''  he said.
``They are so extreme that they say this 330,000-acre Izembek  refuge, the smallest wilderness in Alaska, is so sacrosanct that it  can't move its border 60 feet.''
But Sen. Dale Bumpers, D-Ark., called  the road project a dangerous precedent.
``Building a road through  a wilderness in Alaska, no matter how short or how long, would be  the first time in the nation we have voted deliberately to authorize  a road through a wilderness area,'' Bumpers said.
``And once you go  down that road, nobody knows where it is going to end.''
Top-level budget negotiators for congressional Republicans and the  White House concluded yet another bargaining session late Sunday afternoon  with plans to resume talks on Monday morning and probably extend their  midnight Monday deadline for another day or two.
Both sides were amiable  as they emerged from a two-hour session, but they had little to report  and indicated that their relatively early departure, compared with  the last three nights, should not be interpreted as a sign of crisis  or of imminent peace in the budget talks.
Sunday's discussions focused  on education and President Clinton's request for $1.1 billion to hire  100,000 teachers, but aides said the bargainers did not delve into  much detail and nothing was resolved.
``I think we made some real  progress today, but we still have a significant difference in the  area of education,'' said Erskine Bowles, Clinton's chief of staff  and top negotiator, after Sunday's meeting.
``We're going to try to  plow through that over the next two days.''
Asked how far apart the  two sides were on education, Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, the Republican  majority leader, replied: ``I don't know.
We're not together.''
He  said the two sides had made ``some progress, but not enough.''
The  talks came during another day of escalated political confrontation  as congressional Democrats and Republicans, painfully aware that they  have three weeks until Election Day, tried to take advantage of the  static budget situation.
Congress has passed only six of the 13 required  spending bills and are negotiating now with the White House on a final  omnibus package that will contain the remaining seven bills and major  issues including how to conduct the census in the year 2000, how much  money to provide the International Monetary Fund and under what conditions  it should be provided, and how much emergency money to provide for  items like increased security at U.S. embassies around the world and  for American farmers.
Also to be resolved are a host of issues that  have little to do with financing and more to do with ideology, including  environmental matters, contraception and national student testing.
Republicans said the president had been disengaged from the process,  and they were irked at what they said was his swooping in at the 11th  hour and pushing his education agenda in an apparently successful  portrayal of himself as the guardian of that popular topic.
Democrats  countered that the Republican-led Congress had done nothing all year,  and cast the Republicans as extremists for blocking the president's  plea for more money to hire teachers and modernize schools.
In fact,  Republican bargainers said Saturday night that they would provide  the money if local governments, not Washington, could decide how the  money would be used.
Armey was one of many who castigated the president  for apparent disengagement, an indirect reminder that Clinton has  been steeped in a sex scandal and is facing an impeachment inquiry  in the House.
The scant number of congressional Republicans who did  not leave town for the weekend used the House floor to press this  same message.
``What about the president?''
asked Rep. Tom DeLay of  Texas, the majority whip.
``Maybe in Martha's Vineyard?
Aspen?
Camp  David?
Where is the president?
I bet the American people don't know  that he spent 152 days out of the 283 days this year fund raising,  traveling and on vacation.''
Republicans said that Clinton had participated  in 98 fund-raising events so far this year and that two events on  Monday in New York, supporting the Senate campaign of Rep. Charles  Schumer, would bring him to 100.
Clinton said at the White House that  he was ``prepared to do whatever it takes'' to reach a resolution  over the spending bills, and dispatched his aides to Capitol Hill.
He also said he would postpone from Monday morning until Monday afternoon  his departure for his fund-raising tour in New York, and he canceled  a fund-raising appearance in Florida.
But as the high-level budget  bargaining concluded Sunday afternoon, both sides agreed they would  need to extend their deadline beyond midnight Monday, when temporary  financing for the government expires for the third time since the  Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year.
Congressional Democrats struck back  at the Republicans, saying they have held a slack schedule themselves.
Rep. George Miller, D-Calif., said Congress had been in session only  108 days so far this year, an unusually abbreviated period and one  consumed for more than a month by the drive to hold impeachment hearings  on the president.
Most Americans, Miller said, had worked more than  225 days.
``They say, `Where is the president?'''
Miller said.
``The  president has been waiting for the budget.
This is the first Congress  since 1974 that has no budget,'' he said, referring to the broad blueprint  that is supposed to guide spending.
``This is a Congress that can't  pass seven of its appropriations bills,'' he said, largely because  of divisive splits among conservative and moderate Republicans.
A sticking point for White House and congressional budget negotiators  has been the issue of how the 2000 census will be conducted, and the  White House is finding itself negotiating on the issue as much with  House Democrats as it is with the House Republican leaders.
On Monday,  White House negotiators, led by chief of staff Erskine Bowles, tried  to determine whether Democrats would accept a deal to finance for  six months the departments of State, Justice and Commerce, which oversees  the Census Bureau.
The deal would put off until next March the contentious  issue of whether the next census would use statistical sampling to  supplement traditional methods of counting people.
Bowles told the  group of Democrats that the House Republicans were willing to give  on a number of outstanding issues that were stalling final agreement  on the budget, but that they were digging in their heels when it came  to financing the census for six months.
The Democrats met in the office  of Minority Leader Dick Gephardt.
The rationale for the half-year  financing is that by next March the Supreme Court is expected to rule  on whether using sampling is legal or constitutional.
The Supreme  Court has already agreed to review two lower court rulings that said  sampling would violate federal law.
Oral arguments on the cases are  set for November.
But House Democrats balked at the idea of six months'  financing for the census, arguing that even if the Supreme Court allowed  sampling, the Republicans would be under no obligation to approve  money for a census that included sampling.
``The general feeling among  many Democrats was that even if we won the case, there would be a  lot less leverage in March, especially if it was the only issue left  to be debated,'' said a House Democratic official who insisted on  anonymity.
Democrats contend that now is the time to press the Republicans,  while they want to complete work on the budget and go home to campaign.
Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Calif., who attended the meeting Monday,  said, ``It was, sort of, this is where we are.
We've been able to  accomplish great things, what do you think?
We made it very clear  that unless the census was included, along with some other issues,  like school construction, the deal wouldn't be acceptable.''
Statistical  sampling would allow the Census Bureau to estimate populations that  are difficult to count, and would have the largest effect on the counting  of African-Americans in cities and blacks and Hispanics in rural areas,  groups that are traditionally undercounted by the standard means.
Republicans fear, and Democrats hope, that the method would raise  the count of people living in traditionally Democratic areas, giving  the party an advantage when new boundaries for election districts  are drawn following the 2000 census.
At Monday's meeting, the Democrats  reminded administration officials that Clinton had promised that he  would veto any legislation that restricted the Census Bureau's ability  to conduct an accurate census.
``I can't think of any way that restricts  the census more than not to fully fund it,'' said Rep. Carolyn Maloney,  D-N.Y. The willingness of House Democrats, including Gephardt, to  press the president on the issue represents a realization of their  leverage with Clinton, who will need all of their support in the coming  impeachment inquiry.
``Gephardt is a major player now, and the irony  is we helped make him that,'' said Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn.,  who supports the use of sampling in the census.
The Democrats' position  also indicates how little trust many have in the White House on this  issue.
The proposal to finance the departments of Commerce, Justice  and State for six months is similar to one reached last November between  Bowles and House Speaker Newt Gingrich.
The idea then was that holding  all three departments hostage in the census fight would place maximum  pressure on all sides to work out their differences over sampling.
But House Democrats were not consulted before that agreement was struck  and later grumbled about it.
At a meeting of the Democratic caucus  Tuesday, Ms. Maloney briefed lawmakers on dealings with the White  House and declared that Clinton had promised that he would hold firm  on the census and that she believed him, a participant said.
The statement  was greeted with laughter.
``There is a certain level of suspicion  because there have been times when we have been cut out,''said the  House Democratic official.
``But I have to say, there hasn't been  much evidence of that, this time.''
Struggling to meet their fourth deadline over the federal budget,  congressional Republicans and White House officials wrestled Tuesday  with their differences over education, staging events to demonstrate  support for what has become the most public and politically high-stakes  element of the budget battle.
Negotiators met into the night to hash  out their disagreements over aid for schools, the census and contraceptives.
These were among the biggest issues that still separated the two sides  as each tried to formulate a message to take home to voters for the  Nov. 3 elections.
On education, the issue that President Clinton has  propelled to the forefront of the talks and on which Republicans do  not want to appear recalcitrant, both sides have agreed to spend more  than $1 billion but disagree over how to spend it.
The president insists  the money be spent on hiring 100,000 teachers across the country so  that the average class can be reduced to 18 students.
Republicans,  railing against ``Beltway bureaucrats,'' say that local school districts  should decide how the money is spent, whether it be for teachers or  computers.
The two sides remained apart on several ideological matters,  including whether to allow federal health plans to cover contraceptives  and whether to allow those few plans with religious affiliations to  refuse to cover contraceptives not only on religious grounds but on  moral grounds as well.
And they also were split on how to conduct  the census in the year 2000.
This is one of the thorniest issues.
It is not one that moves voters, but it is vital to both parties because  it helps determine their relative strength in Congress.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich and Erskine Bowles, the president's chief of staff and  top negotiator, met for much of the day in the speaker's office, shuttling  in and out of ante-rooms with their lieutenants but giving few clues  about the nitty gritty details of their talks.
They have given themselves  another deadline of midnight Wednesday to wrap up about $500 billion-worth  of spending items, but they could easily extend that deadline another  day or two.
They missed the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year, providing  temporary funding for the federal government through Oct. 9, then  Oct. 12, then Wednesday.
Some of the other central issues, such as  financing for the International Monetary Fund, were all but nailed  down, but neither side was ready to declare a final deal until all  the other elements of the budget package are in place.
``We're down  to splitting infinitives,'' Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, the Republican  majority leader, said of approving funds for the international fund.
As they worked through several issues, Republican leaders appeared  to be calculating the differences in their own party that might sour  more of a concern  than on the Senate floor because the Senate has fewer differences  among its Republicans and with the White House.
Struggling to meet their fourth deadline over the federal budget,  congressional Republicans and White House officials wrestled Tuesday  with their differences over education, the most politically high-stakes  element of the budget battle.
Negotiators ended a late-night session  without resolving disagreements over not just education, but the census  and contraceptives.
These were among the biggest issues that still  separated the two sides as each tried to formulate a message to take  home to voters for the Nov. 3 elections.
On education, the issue that  President Clinton has propelled to the forefront and on which Republicans  do not want to appear recalcitrant, both sides have agreed to spend  more than $1 billion but not on how to spend it.
The president insists  that the money be spent to hire 100,000 teachers across the country  so that the average class can be reduced to 18 students.
Republicans,  railing against ``Beltway bureaucrats,'' say that local school districts  should decide how the money is spent, whether it be for teachers or  computers.
As the two sides broke Tuesday night, White House chief  of staff Erskine Bowles, the president's top negotiator, emerged from  the session saying: ``We don't have a deal.
We made some good progress.
The biggest issue, still, is the 100,000 teachers.''
He added: ``There  are still some open issues'' upon which no agreement has been reached,  but he sounded optimistic about a session scheduled for Wednesday  morning.
``I think we've got a chance of wrapping up tomorrow,'' he  said.
The two sides remained apart on several ideological matters,  including whether to allow federal health plans to cover contraceptives  and whether to allow those few plans with religious affiliations to  refuse to cover contraceptives not only on religious grounds but on  moral grounds as well.
They were also split on how to conduct the  census in 2000, which is one of the thorniest issues.
It is not one  that moves voters, but it is vital to both parties because it helps  determine their relative strength in Congress.
House Speaker Newt  Gingrich and Bowles met for much of the day in the speaker's office,  shuttling in and out of ante-rooms with their lieutenants but giving  few clues about the nitty-gritty details of their talks.
They have  given themselves another deadline of midnight Wednesday to wrap up  about $500 billion worth of spending items, but they could easily  extend that deadline another day or two.
They missed having spending  bills in place for the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year, providing  temporary financing for the federal government through Oct. 9, then  Oct. 12, then Wednesday.
Some of the other central issues, like financing  for the International Monetary Fund, were all but nailed down, but  neither side was ready to declare a final deal until all the other  elements of the budget package were in place.
``We're down to splitting  infinitives,'' House Majority Leader Dick Armey said of approving  money for the IMF.
As they worked through several issues, Republican  leaders appeared to be calculating the differences in their own party   more of a concern than the Senate floor because the Senate has fewer  differences among its Republicans and with the White House.
Some conservative  Republicans said they were concerned over the emerging shape of the  final package, particularly elements dealing with family planning  and emergency spending.
They say the president's proposals for emergency  spending, on such items as the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, fixing  the year 2000 computer bug and providing relief to American farmers,  will break the limits in last year's balanced-budget agreement.
The  administration said such money would come from corresponding cuts  elsewhere in the budget, but conservatives say it comes from raiding  the surplus.
If Republican leaders cannot count on their conservatives,  they will need support from Democrats to pass the final package.
And  Democrats on Tuesday expressed concern over some White House positions,  on issues like the census and an apparent compromise with Republicans  on aid for farmers.
Rep. David McIntosh, R-Ind., a leader of House  conservatives, said he believed Republican leaders were ceding too  quickly to the White House.
He said that the president appeared to  be getting his way on some issues but that what he really seemed to  be winning was the war of public relations.
``The president is getting  what he wants; he's controlling the situation,'' McIntosh lamented.
When Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott appears on television, McIntosh  said, ``it's in reaction to the president.''
Nonetheless, McIntosh  suggested that he could vote for a final accord.
``Most conservatives  are holding out for a better deal than we're hearing,'' he said, ``but  we'll probably give them the vote because we don't see a much better  alternative happening if it goes down.''
Others were distressed, particularly  about two contraceptive issues.
One would require federal health plans  to cover contraceptives.
The other would bar overseas family-planning  organizations from lobbying to change abortion laws in other countries.
Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., said he wanted to see the final language  on the health plan measure.
As it passed both the House and the Senate,  it allowed for health plans with religious affiliation to decline  to offer contraceptive coverage; Coburn wants plans to be able to  refuse such coverage on moral grounds as well.
The plan covers five  specific types of contraception.
Coburn said he wanted two of those  _ Depo-Provera and intrauterine devices _ to be eliminated from coverage  because he said they interfered with fertilization and were therefore  considered to cause abortions.
Democrats like Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y.,  who introduced the contraceptive plan in the House, said she strongly  objected to Coburn's position.
She said that health plans based their  decisions on what to offer on profits, not morals.
The question is  whether the White House will insist on keeping the contraceptive coverage  in the final package and will oppose the moral exception.
If the administration  allows the moral exception, it could alienate some House Democrats.
House Democrats are also worried about the direction the talks are  taking on the census.
This has always loomed as one of the biggest  issues separating Democrats and Republicans.
The results of a census  help determine the future power of the two political parties.
But  the fact that the two sides are finally talking about it now indicates  that they are covering the full range of budget matters that need  to be resolved.
The White House has proposed buying time on the matter  by financing the Commerce, State and Justice departments only for  five months.
The Commerce Department contains the Census Bureau.
White  House officials said this would put off the nettlesome issue while  allowing a resolution of the entire spending package, but House Democrats  worry it would be a prelude to giving in to Republicans down the road.
Republican leaders like the idea of postponing a decision but say  that financing should be restricted only for the Census Bureau.
On  several touchy environmental issues that have prompted repeated veto  threats from the White House, the two sides appeared to be opting  for compromise over confrontation, with several disputes resolved.
But a few particularly difficult issues remained under negotiation.
A compromise was struck between the White House and Alaskan lawmakers  on logging in the Tongass National Forest.
But compromise still eluded  them on the question of building a road through a wilderness refuge  to connect two communities in Alaska.
Struggling to meet their fourth deadline over the federal budget,  congressional Republicans and White House officials wrestled Tuesday  with their differences over education, the most politically high-stakes  element of the budget battle.
Negotiators ended a late-night session  without resolving disagreements over not just education, but the census  and contraceptives.
These were among the biggest issues that still  separated the two sides as each tried to formulate a message to take  home to voters for the Nov. 3 elections.
On education, the issue that  President Clinton has propelled to the forefront and on which Republicans  do not want to appear recalcitrant, both sides have agreed to spend  more than $1 billion but not on how to spend it.
The president insists  that the money be spent to hire 100,000 teachers across the country  so that the average class can be reduced to 18 students.
Republicans,  railing against ``Beltway bureaucrats,'' say that local school districts  should decide how the money is spent, whether it be for teachers or  computers.
As the two sides broke Tuesday night, White House chief  of staff Erskine Bowles, the president's top negotiator, emerged from  the session saying: ``We don't have a deal.
We made some good progress.
The biggest issue, still, is the 100,000 teachers.''
He added: ``There  are still some open issues'' upon which no agreement has been reached,  but he sounded optimistic about a session scheduled for Wednesday  morning.
``I think we've got a chance of wrapping up tomorrow,'' he  said.
The two sides remained apart on several ideological matters,  including whether to allow federal health plans to cover contraceptives  and whether to allow those few plans with religious affiliations to  refuse to cover contraceptives not only on religious grounds but on  moral grounds as well.
They were also split on how to conduct the  census in 2000, which is one of the thorniest issues.
It is not one  that moves voters, but it is vital to both parties because it helps  determine their relative strength in Congress.
House Speaker Newt  Gingrich and Bowles met for much of the day in the speaker's office,  shuttling in and out of ante-rooms with their lieutenants but giving  few clues about the nitty-gritty details of their talks.
They have  given themselves another deadline of midnight Wednesday to wrap up  about $500 billion worth of spending items, but they could easily  extend that deadline another day or two.
They missed having spending  bills in place for the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year, providing  temporary financing for the federal government through Oct. 9, then  Oct. 12, then Wednesday.
Some of the other central issues, like financing  for the International Monetary Fund, were all but nailed down, but  neither side was ready to declare a final deal until all the other  elements of the budget package were in place.
``We're down to splitting  infinitives,'' House Majority Leader Dick Armey said of approving  money for the IMF.
As they worked through several issues, Republican  leaders appeared to be calculating the differences in their own party   more of a concern than the Senate floor because the Senate has fewer  differences among its Republicans and with the White House.
Some conservative  Republicans said they were concerned over the emerging shape of the  final package, particularly elements dealing with family planning  and emergency spending.
They say the president's proposals for emergency  spending, on such items as the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, fixing  the year 2000 computer bug and providing relief to American farmers,  will break the limits in last year's balanced-budget agreement.
The  administration said such money would come from corresponding cuts  elsewhere in the budget, but conservatives say it comes from raiding  the surplus.
If Republican leaders cannot count on their conservatives,  they will need support from Democrats to pass the final package.
And  Democrats on Tuesday expressed concern over some White House positions,  on issues like the census and an apparent compromise with Republicans  on aid for farmers.
Rep. David McIntosh, R-Ind., a leader of House  conservatives, said he believed Republican leaders were ceding too  quickly to the White House.
He said that the president appeared to  be getting his way on some issues but that what he really seemed to  be winning was the war of public relations.
``The president is getting  what he wants; he's controlling the situation,'' McIntosh lamented.
When Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott appears on television, McIntosh  said, ``it's in reaction to the president.''
Nonetheless, McIntosh  suggested that he could vote for a final accord.
``Most conservatives  are holding out for a better deal than we're hearing,'' he said, ``but  we'll probably give them the vote because we don't see a much better  alternative happening if it goes down.''
Others were distressed, particularly  about two contraceptive issues.
One would require federal health plans  to cover contraceptives.
The other would bar overseas family-planning  organizations from lobbying to change abortion laws in other countries.
Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., said he wanted to see the final language  on the health plan measure.
As it passed both the House and the Senate,  it allowed for health plans with religious affiliation to decline  to offer contraceptive coverage; Coburn wants plans to be able to  refuse such coverage on moral grounds as well.
The plan covers five  specific types of contraception.
Coburn said he wanted two of those  _ Depo-Provera and intrauterine devices _ to be eliminated from coverage  because he said they interfered with fertilization and were therefore  considered to cause abortions.
Democrats like Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y.,  who introduced the contraceptive plan in the House, said she strongly  objected to Coburn's position.
She said that health plans based their  decisions on what to offer on profits, not morals.
The question is  whether the White House will insist on keeping the contraceptive coverage  in the final package and will oppose the moral exception.
If the administration  allows the moral exception, it could alienate some House Democrats.
House Democrats are also worried about the direction the talks are  taking on the census.
This has always loomed as one of the biggest  issues separating Democrats and Republicans.
The results of a census  help determine the future power of the two political parties.
But  the fact that the two sides are finally talking about it now indicates  that they are covering the full range of budget matters that need  to be resolved.
The White House has proposed buying time on the matter  by financing the Commerce, State and Justice departments only for  five months.
The Commerce Department contains the Census Bureau.
White  House officials said this would put off the nettlesome issue while  allowing a resolution of the entire spending package, but House Democrats  worry it would be a prelude to giving in to Republicans down the road.
Republican leaders like the idea of postponing a decision but say  that financing should be restricted only for the Census Bureau.
On  several touchy environmental issues that have prompted repeated veto  threats from the White House, the two sides appeared to be opting  for compromise over confrontation, with several disputes resolved.
But a few particularly difficult issues remained under negotiation.
A compromise was struck between the White House and Alaskan lawmakers  on logging in the Tongass National Forest.
But compromise still eluded  them on the question of building a road through a wilderness refuge  to connect two communities in Alaska.
Some conservatives sounded notes of discord Friday over the federal  spending agreement, but they also said they would probably vote for  the $500 billion package because it boosted defense spending and provided  aid to farmers.
However, no one can vote on the package just yet,  because it is not finished.
The deal that President Clinton and Republican  leaders hailed Thursday was a broad outline of areas of agreement  on the final portion of the $1.7 trillion budget, not a written document.
That is now being crafted by the chairmen of the spending committees  and their aides, who said Friday that there were still disputes that  needed to be resolved and that the final document could run to more  than 3,000 pages.
For example, still unresolved is a dispute over  whether airlines can create a ``peanut-free'' zone to protect passengers  who are allergic to peanuts.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other  members from Georgia, a major peanut-producing state, are fighting  the proposal, which would force airlines to ban peanuts within three  rows of someone with an allergy.
Congress gave itself until midnight  Tuesday to vote on the final bill, agreeing with President Clinton  to a fifth extension of temporary financing to keep the government  open.
The budget was due Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year.
The vote was initially expected Friday, but the bill is nowhere near  including  Gingrich, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and White House chief  of staff Erskine Bowles _ were in the room for the final deal.
Excluded  were the committee chairmen and the heads of the appropriation committees,  who now must write the language that will put the deal into law.
Almost  everyone on Capitol Hill expects the budget to pass eventually, with  the biggest defections coming from conservatives who object to the  $20 billion taken from the surplus to address so-called emergencies  and for the package's failure to offer voters a serious tax cut.
The  lag time before the bill is officially closed is making some conservatives  nervous that more members will try to add provisions that will further  expand a bill they already consider overly bloated.
And some worry  that once the hometown pork that is stuffed into the bill is publicly  revealed, voters could put pressure on members not to support it.
The elections are Nov. 3.
But several conservatives said that despite  these problems, they expected to support the bill anyway.
Rep. Mark  Souder, R-Ind., said: `Most of my friends, who are predominantly activist  conservatives, are split about 50-50.
If tax cuts were your primary  thing, then you're unhappy, but many conservatives have a mixed agenda.
My position is, hold the nose and vote yes.
We have no tax cuts and  far too much spending that I oppose, but that's the nature of compromise.
Every member has a little different focus.''
Souder said he liked  the extra money for defense spending, and he liked the price supports  for farmers.
Hog farmers in his district, whose biggest customers  were Japan and China, had been hit hard by the collapse of Asian markets.
For the first time in decades, Congress and the White House negotiated  tax and spending legislation this year with the budget in surplus.
The result was chaos.
The lawmakers were never able to agree on a  the framework into which all the tax and spending  bills are supposed to fit.
This had not happened since congressional  budget procedures were established in 1974.
Then, without the discipline  of such an overall plan, the Senate and the House could not pass eight  of the 13 spending bills needed to keep the government running.
So  the lawmakers had to stay in session more than a week longer than  they had hoped.
Finally, they lumped all eight bills together this  week and announced an agreement.
But the only way they could get this  far was to resort to gimmicks.
One was to designate $20 billion as  ``emergency'' expenditures so that programs did not have to be cut  elsewhere to offset the new spending.
This will use up more than one-quarter  of the anticipated budget surplus in the current fiscal year.
Another  gimmick extended the tax break for Individual Retirement Accounts  to couples with incomes from $100,000 to $150,000.
This will actually  raise a small amount of revenue in the next five years _ the period  covered by budget accounting _ but it will make the picture considerably  worse in later years.
As hard as it was to negotiate a budget in the  bad old days of budget deficits, say the politicians involved, it  was exponentially more difficult this year.
At least in years past,  there was a common goal.
As much as they disagreed on policy and principle,  they were all aiming at a reduction in the deficit.
This year, some  members of Congress wanted to use the surplus for a big tax cut.
Others  wanted to pay off the national debt.
Others wanted to spend part of  it on medical research, schools and weapons for the Pentagon.
Others  wanted to spend large sums on highways.
Still others wanted to continue  cutting government spending.
And that was just among the Republicans.
The Democrats had their own ideas about the budget, and President  Clinton laid down his marker about saving the surplus until a way  was found to shore up the Social Security system.
``In budget terms,''  said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the congressional budget  office, ``this is like the end of the Cold War.''
There are other  differences as well in the way things were negotiated with the budget  in a surplus.
In 1990, 1993 and 1995, when politicians staked their  careers on striking a budget deal to lower the deficit, the fundamental  question was how to divide up the bitter medicine of more taxes and  less spending.
Republicans, for the most part, opposed tax increases  and favored cutting spending on social programs.
Democrats wanted  to raise taxes, especially on the rich, and protect social spending.
In the end, balances were carefully drawn.
But plenty of politicians  _ President George Bush, to name one _ lost their jobs in the process.
This year, with Democrats and Republicans alike claiming victory,  the burning issue was how to parcel out the candy.
Democrats got more  money for education and farm assistance.
Republicans got more money  for the military and an extension of popular tax breaks for businesses.
Some of the $20 billion that will eat into the surplus really will  go for emergencies, like relief for victims of Hurricane Georges.
But much of the money, like the $90 million that will pay for six  new helicopters for the national police in Colombia to use in drug  interdiction, was designated emergency spending simply because there  was no other way to get it into the budget.
For the politicians, the  new way is more fun.
It is hard to imagine that anyone will be voted  out of office because of this year's budget.
But that did not make  it easier to reach an agreement.
The other big difference is that  the principal fights this year were not over money at all.
They involved  delicate policy issues like needle exchanges, contraception, global  warming, immigration and the census.
In Congress, there is no consensus  on these matters.
So the only way policy could be set was to wrap  them into the giant spending bill.
It may be more pleasant to debate  policy than money.
But it is probably harder to find a way to split  the difference.
As long as the surplus lasts, the lack of discipline  that characterized the budget-writing this year is likely to continue.
This is distressing to those devoted to controlling government spending.
``The temptation,'' said L. Ari Fleischer, spokesman for the House  Ways and Means Committee, ``is to grab the loot and spend it.''
Some conservatives sounded notes of discord Friday over the federal  spending agreement, but they also said they would probably vote for  the $500 billion package because it boosted defense spending and provided  aid to farmers.
However, no one can vote on the package just yet,  because it is not finished.
The deal that President Clinton and Republican  leaders hailed Thursday was a broad outline of areas of agreement  on the final portion of the $1.7 trillion budget, not a written document.
That is now being crafted by the chairmen of the spending committees  and their aides, who said Friday that there were still disputes that  needed to be resolved and that the final document could run to more  than 3,000 pages.
For example, still unresolved is a dispute over  whether airlines can create a ``peanut-free'' zone to protect passengers  who are allergic to peanuts.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other  members from Georgia, a major peanut-producing state, are fighting  the proposal, which would force airlines to ban peanuts within three  rows of someone with an allergy.
Congress gave itself until midnight  Tuesday to vote on the final bill, agreeing with President Clinton  to a fifth extension of temporary financing to keep the government  open.
The budget was due Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year.
The vote was initially expected Friday, but the bill is nowhere near  including  Gingrich, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and White House chief  of staff Erskine Bowles _ were in the room for the final deal.
Excluded  were the committee chairmen and the heads of the appropriation committees,  who now must write the language that will put the deal into law.
Almost  everyone on Capitol Hill expects the budget to pass eventually, with  the biggest defections coming from conservatives who object to the  $20 billion taken from the surplus to address so-called emergencies  and for the package's failure to offer voters a serious tax cut.
The  lag time before the bill is officially closed is making some conservatives  nervous that more members will try to add provisions that will further  expand a bill they already consider overly bloated.
And some worry  that once the hometown pork that is stuffed into the bill is publicly  revealed, voters could put pressure on members not to support it.
The elections are Nov. 3.
But several conservatives said that despite  these problems, they expected to support the bill anyway.
Rep. Mark  Souder, R-Ind., said: `Most of my friends, who are predominantly activist  conservatives, are split about 50-50.
If tax cuts were your primary  thing, then you're unhappy, but many conservatives have a mixed agenda.
My position is, hold the nose and vote yes.
We have no tax cuts and  far too much spending that I oppose, but that's the nature of compromise.
Every member has a little different focus.''
Souder said he liked  the extra money for defense spending, and he liked the price supports  for farmers.
Hog farmers in his district, whose biggest customers  were Japan and China, had been hit hard by the collapse of Asian markets.
Several Republicans said that the bill seemed skewed in favor of the  Democrats.
They cited two reasons: Clinton needed to curry favor with  Democrats to shore up support if the House votes to impeach him, and  Republican leaders feared that if they had stood up to Clinton, they  might have forced a government shutdown and Republicans would be blamed.
``Clinton was buying votes,'' said Rep. David Hobson, R-Ohio.
``He  was sucking up to the liberal Democrats so they would support him  in impeachment.''
Rep. W.J. (Billy) Tauzin, R-La., said the leaders  seemed motivated by a desire to avoid the political damage they incurred  from the partial government shutdowns of 1995 and 1996.
He also cited  the president's need to placate the left by adding costly domestic  programs.
``The combination of the lessons learned three years ago  and the scandal on the president's side yielded the inevitable result,  a budget that leans way to the left,'' Tauzin said.
Still, he said  he would probably support the bill.
``It won't be enthusiastically,''  he said.
``It won't be holding my nose either.
I would have preferred  to spend more of this money on a tax cut.
I think we would have gotten  a tax cut, but for the scandal.
If the president had not been caught  up with the scandal, he probably would have followed the Dick Morris  strategy and moved towards the center.''
Gingrich said he recognized  that some conservatives were wary of the agreement.
But he sought  to reassure them that the package served their interests.
He cited  a $9 billion increase in defense spending.
And he noted that the Republicans  had blocked several items, including needle-exchange programs in the  District of Columbia, national education testing and U.S. contributions  to a United Nations program that pays for family planning in China,  which many in Congress object to because China has a policy of coercing  abortions and forcing sterilization.
Gingrich said the agreement was  the best that could be achieved ``when you have a conservative Republican  Congress and a liberal Democratic president.''
Some conservatives  who had been especially critical were more understanding Thursday.
Rep. David McIntosh, R-Ind., a leader of conservatives in the House,  had denounced the bill earlier as a Great Society type of big-spending  program.
Friday, after a meeting of Republicans, he said, ``Our leadership  found themselves in a bad situation and did a good job.''
A few remained  outright hostile to the bill, as much for the hasty way in which it  was cobbled together as for what it contained.
Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas,  said: `I'm voting `no' unless something revolutionary happens between  now and Tuesday.
I think it's the process that gives the president  the ability to stonewall until the very end and then hold us for ransom.
The Republican leadership in the House and Senate did a good job of  limiting the highway robbery, but it's still gone too far beyond the  spending caps.''
Also angry at the rushed endgame was Rep. Gene Taylor,  D-Miss., who took to the House floor and said he could not support  the final bill.
``I'm going to urge my colleagues to vote `no,' ''  Taylor said.
``We have stayed here this long.
We can stay a little  bit longer.
And I am going to encourage my colleagues to continue  to vote no until we are given adequate time to study the measure that  is brought before us.''
Concern over the health of President Boris Yeltsin has led many Russians to question his ability to govern.
He has had multiple bypass surgery and is susceptible to respiratory ailments.
Periods of illness have caused him to cancel foreign trips and on some travels, he was unable to attend all official functions.
He is politically weakened, leaving others to grapple with Russia's economic crisis.
Russia's constitutional court was to hold hearings on whether Yeltsin could seek a third term under their two term limitations since part of his first term was under the Soviet constitution.
That appears to be moot point since he has said he will not run again.
President Boris Yeltsin's health has become a matter of great concern to the Russian leadership.
The concern began in 1996 when he had a heart attack followed by bypass surgery.
Illness has often sidelined him during his seven years in power.
He recently cut short a trip to Central Asia because of a respiratory infection and he later canceled two out-of-country summits.
This revived questions about his ability to lead Russia through any crisis.
Yeltsin refuses to admit he is seriously ill and his condition is kept secret, even the cause for burns on his hands.
Russia's leaders are calling for his resignation and question his legal right to seek reelection.
President Boris Yeltsin had a heart attack in 1996, followed by multiple bypass surgery.
Doctors say his health is more or less normal but secrecy increases conjecture.
The cause of minor burns on his hand were not disclosed.
On a trip to Uzbekistan he walked stiffly, stumbled, rambled and seemed confused.
Ceremonies were canceled and the trip ended a day early because of his bronchitis and a 99.3F fever.
He was treated with antibiotics and ordered to bed but went to the office anyway.
Calls that he turn over power were revived.
He says he will not run again.
He canceled an upcoming trip to Austria and sent PM Primakov in his place to an Asian summit.
Russian President Yeltsin's health was a hot topic in October.
First he burned his hand.
Next, in Central Asia, he cancelled public appearances and appeared disoriented.
The trip was shortened due to a "respiratory infection".
He was ordered to rest and take antibiotics.
He then cancelled his trip to the Asian Summit.
Although stoutly defended by his family, many Russians, including former supporters, suspect he is sicker, question his ability to do his job, and want him to resign.
He has a history of health problems including heart bypass surgery.
The court was to judge on whether he could serve a third term, but he already has said he will not run.
President Boris Yeltsin has suffered minor burns on his right hand,  his press office said Thursday.
Asked about small bandages that were  visible on Yeltsin's hand during an awards ceremony, the press office  said the president had sustained small burns.
It did not say what  had caused them.
President Boris Yeltsin's doctors have pronounced his health ``more  or less normal,'' his wife Naina said in an interview published Wednesday.
Mrs. Yeltsin told the Argumenty i Fakty weekly that she hesitated  even to touch on her husband's health ``when there is so much conjecture  on this topic.''
Still, she noted that he had regular medical check-ups.
``The doctors say now: Everything is more or less normal,'' Mrs. Yeltsin  declared.
The 67-year-old Yeltsin's health has long been a concern,  and the worry has been amplified by the secrecy surrounding his condition.
Yeltsin suffered from heart disease during the 1996 presidential election  and had a heart attack, followed by multiple bypass surgery, in the  months after his victory.
Mrs. Yeltsin expressed understanding for  Russians who took part Wednesday in protests for unpaid wages.
She  also said that criticism of the president was normal, though it was  offensive when it focused on anything other than his professional  performance, such as his age.
``It seems to me ... that people expected  a miracle from him,'' Mrs. Yeltsin said.
``But surely you can't curse  a person for not being a magician.''
Mrs. Yeltsin refuted rumors that  her family would leave Russia after Yeltsin leaves office in 2000  as ``absolute nonsense.''
``I think we'll live like all normal people.
At least it will be calmer than it is now.''
President Boris Yeltsin, on his first trip out of Russia since this  spring, canceled a welcoming ceremony in Uzbekistan on Sunday because  he wasn't feeling well, his spokesman said.
Yeltsin appeared stiff  and stumbled during another public ceremony after he arrived in Tashkent,  the capital of this Central Asian nation, and had to be supported  by Uzbek President Islam Karimov.
But the two later held a one-on-one  summit as scheduled.
The trip is Yeltsin's first high-profile foray  since an economic crisis swamped his country in August.
The 67-year-old  president, whose health has often sidelined him during his seven years  in power, has spent most of the last two months out of the limelight  and out of the Kremlin, holding meetings in his country home outside  Moscow.
His last foreign trip was to Britain in May, when he attended  a summit of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations.
During  his visits to Uzbekistan and Kazakstan this week, Yeltsin is expected  to discuss improving Russia's relations with the two former Soviet  republics, whose economies have suffered residual effects of the crisis  that hit Russia after it devalued its currency in August and defaulted  on some of its debt.
On Sunday, Yeltsin had been scheduled to lay  wreaths at a monument to Alisher Naboi, an 16th century Uzbek poet,  and salute an Uzbek honor guard, but both ceremonies were canceled.
``This week was extremely tense.
(Yeltsin) was affected by a difficult  flight and the end of a difficult week,'' Yeltsin's chief spokesman,  Dmitry Yakushkin, told a news conference.
``He has a cold.
He was  coughing when we spoke.''
It was sunny and about 14 degrees C (57  degrees F) in Tashkent on Sunday.
Yakushkin said Yeltsin's schedule  Monday may also change depending on how he feels.
Yeltsin and Karimov  later met at a government residence outside Tashkent and signed several  agreements on fighting smuggling and other crime and expanding cultural  ties.
The two sides are expected to sign economic agreements Monday.
Later Monday, Yeltsin is to go to Kazakstan, where he and Kazak President  Nursultan Nazarbayev are expected to sign agreements on economic,  science and technical cooperation and on combating drug trafficking.
Last week, Yeltsin said he also planned to discuss the situation in  Afghanistan with his Uzbek and Kazak counterparts.
Russia and the  two republics fear an influx of refugees and weapons from Afghanistan,  and possibly a spillover of fighting that has wracked the country.
Yeltsin was accompanied by Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, Defense Minister  Igor Sergeyev, Finance Minister Mikhail Zadornov, officials from the  Federal Border Guard Service, the State Customs Committee, the Defense  Ministry, and the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Doctors ordered Russian President Boris Yeltsin to cut short his Central  Asian trip because of a respiratory infection and he agreed to return  home Monday, a day earlier than planned, officials said.
Yeltsin was  suffering from tracheobronchitis, had a fever of 37.4 Celsius (99.3  Fahrenheit) and was being treated with antibiotics, the president's  doctors told the Interfax news agency.
Yeltsin was to fly back to  Moscow late Monday, rather than on Tuesday as scheduled, but was going  ahead with talks, including a meeting with Kazak President Nursultan  Nazarbayev.
He planned to move up all his scheduled meetings before  returning home, aides said.
The 67-year-old, 3rd graf pvs
Russian President Boris Yeltsin cut short a trip to Central Asia on  Monday due to a respiratory infection that revived questions about  his overall health and ability to lead Russia through a sustained  economic crisis.
Yeltsin's premature return to Moscow also prompted  doubts about his capacity to respond decisively in the Kosovo crisis,  in which Russia has been leading a campaign to forestall airstrikes.
Moscow's NTV station said it was a crucial time for Russia, when ``presidential  decisions'' are needed.
There was no indication that Yeltsin's illness  would sideline him for any length of time, and aides said the president  would maintain his schedule for the rest of the week.
But after a  series of health problems in recent years, including heart bypass  surgery in 1996, every new ailment unleashes a flurry of speculation  about the president's ability to function.
The president insists he  has no major health problems and will serve out the remaining two  years of his term.
Yeltsin's aides said the president was taking antibiotics  to ward off a bout of bronchitis and a mild fever of 37.4 Celsius  (99.3 Fahrenheit).
There were no plans to hospitalize Yeltsin, who  arrived in Moscow late Monday night from Almaty, Kazakstan, a day  earlier than planned.
President Boris Yeltsin stayed home Tuesday, nursing a respiratory  infection that forced him to cut short a foreign trip and revived  concerns about his ability to govern.
Yeltsin was spending the day  at his Gorky-9 country residence just outside Moscow, and will probably  not go into the office all week, his spokesman, Dmitry Yakushkin,  told reporters.
However, Yeltsin's condition was stable, Yakushkin  said.
Doctors insisted Monday that Yeltsin fly home from Central Asia  a day ahead of schedule because he was suffering from an upper respiratory  infection and had a mild fever of 37.4 Celsius (99.3 F).
They said  Yeltsin was being treated with antibiotics and there were no plans  to hospitalize him.
Yeltsin, 67, has a history of health problems,  including quintuple heart bypass surgery two years ago, so whenever  he gets sick there is a flurry of speculation about his ability to  function.
Yeltsin insists he has no major illness and plans to serve  out the remaining two years of his term.
Yakushkin, his spokesman,  reiterated Tuesday there was no talk about an early resignation.
``It's  not being discussed,'' he said.
``I am personally against such a resignation  because I think it would only bring peril to the nation.''
Yakushkin  and other aides sought to play down the seriousness of Yeltsin's illness.
``Don't panic, Dad is OK,'' Yeltsin's daughter Tatiana Dyachenko,  who is his official image adviser, told the Kommersant business newspaper.
Yakushkin said Yeltsin's personal doctor, Sergei Mironov, confirmed  that the president was suffering from a respiratory infection known  as tracheal bronchitis and that ``his condition is stable.''
``He  must stay in bed like any other person,'' Yakushkin said.
``However,  knowing the president's character, he is certain to start working  with documents and making phone calls to Russian politicians as well  as foreign leaders in view of the current situation in Kosovo.''
But  the Nezavisimaya Gazeta newspaper said in a front-page editorial Tuesday  that Yeltsin's condition suggests he is suffering from something worse  than a cold.
It said his absence from the Kremlin during the current  economic crisis ``amounts to a state catastrophe'' and called on Yeltsin  to immediately surrender most of his powers to Prime Minister Yevgeny  Primakov.
A Communist lawmaker also called for ``an urgent medical  check ... on the Russian president's health'' to determine whether  he is fit to remain in office, the Interfax news agency said.
``Yeltsin's  obvious inability to perform his functions is damaging Russian state  authority, as power is being misused by the clique close to the president,''  said Viktor Ilyukhin, chairman of parliament's security committee.
The health of the president, who is also commander-in-chief of the  Russian military, ``is a direct threat to the country's national security  and a factor of serious concern regarding Russia's nuclear weapons,''  he said.
Other newspapers gave a detailed description of Yeltsin's  weaknesses and his erratic behavior on the trip to the former Soviet  his first foray abroad since  a visit to Britain in May.
The president appeared stiff and stumbled  when he arrived Sunday in Uzbekistan's capital of Tashkent.
He had  to be supported by Uzbek President Islam Karimov and canceled his  other public events.
At a state dinner on Sunday, Yeltsin made rambling  remarks, expressing his satisfaction with local ``facilities and stores''  he never inspected, the daily Kommersant reported.
On Monday, ``the  president didn't seem to understand that he wasn't in Moscow,'' Kommersant  said, saying he called aides and spoke as though they were late for  work at the Kremlin.
He turned up more than an hour late for talks  with Uzbek officials, making some incoherent remarks interrupted by  a bad cough and abruptly cutting short a scheduled news conference.
Weakened by a cold yet animated, President Boris Yeltsin defied doctors'  orders and quashed rumors he is seriously ill by showing up unexpectedly  at the Kremlin on Wednesday.
Still, his appearance didn't silence  the growing number of calls for his resignation.
Hours after he returned  to work, the generally pro-Yeltsin upper house of parliament fell  just 11 votes short of passing a motion urging him to step down over  his social welfare policies.
Yeltsin, 67, has a respiratory infection  that forced him to cut short his first foreign visit in months on  Monday.
Whenever Yeltsin falls ill, speculation arises about his ability  to govern.
This time, however, the prospect of him leaving office  has aroused less panic, since he has largely faded from the limelight  in recent months and left his government to grapple with Russia's  economic crisis.
``There will be no turmoil if Yeltsin leaves the  political arena.
The government is already in charge, (Prime Minister  Yevgeny) Primakov is strong enough and has the support of the security  services,'' said Yevgeny Volk, director of the Moscow office of the  U.S.-based Heritage Foundation.
``Everyone knows Yeltsin is ailing  and is politically weakened,'' he said.
Yeltsin has a history of health  problems, and underwent heart bypass surgery in 1996.
Still, he insists  he has no major illnesses and plans to serve out the remaining two  years of his term.
``I can't even sneeze'' without someone making  a fuss about it, he joked with Primakov during a meeting Wednesday.
In the Kremlin, Yeltsin discussed developments in Kosovo with Primakov,  Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, Russian  news agencies said.
Yeltsin looked wan and tired and walked stiffly,  but he was smiling, gesturing animatedly and joking with his ministers.
The start of the meeting was shown on Russian television.
Primakov  said afterward that Yeltsin waved his hand dismissively ``when we  reminded him that he should stay in bed during his illness'' and said  of his doctors: ``Don't listen to them.''
The upper house of parliament  was busy voting on a motion saying he should resign.
The vote in the  Federation Council, which is made up of regional leaders, was 79 to  18 in favor, Russian news agencies reported.
It did not pass because  it required a simple majority of 90 votes.
The motion carries no legal  weight, but it reflects growing anti-Yeltsin sentiment in a chamber  that has generally supported him.
The prime minister reiterated Wednesday  that Yeltsin has no plans to resign or call early elections.
``There  is no reason for rocking the boat and demanding anyone's resignation,''  Primakov said, according to the Interfax news agency.
``What happens  to the anti-crisis steps if elections are held now?''
Yeltsin's resignation  is highly unlikely.
If he were to step down or die, Primakov would  take power and elections would have to be held within three months.
Many Russians view Yeltsin with increasing pity.
``I feel for him.
He's clearly not a healthy person,'' film director Vladimir Khotinenko  was quoted as saying by the daily Kommersant.
``It's time for him  to step aside.''
Doctors ordered the president to stay in bed Tuesday  and his spokesman, Dmitry Yakushkin, had said Yeltsin would not be  in the office all week.
Yeltsin stumbled and had to be supported during  his visit to Central Asia on Sunday and Monday.
He canceled most of  his public engagements, except for a state dinner at which he made  rambling remarks and a news conference that he abruptly cut short.
Russia's Constitutional Court opened hearings Thursday on whether  Boris Yeltsin can seek a third term.
The issue was controversial earlier  this year when Yeltsin refused to spell out his intentions and his  aides insisted he had the legal right to seek re-election.
It has  lost some of its urgency, as Yeltsin has grown physically and politically  weaker and has said he will not run again.
The Russian Constitution  has a two-term limit for presidents.
But Yeltsin's aides say his first  term, from 1991 to 1996, does not count because it began six months  before the Soviet Union collapsed and before the current constitution  took effect.
Communists and other Yeltsin opponents in parliament's  lower house, the State Duma, disagreed and appealed to the Constitutional  Court in February.
While the case has been waiting to be heard, events  have overtaken it.
Yeltsin has flatly said he will not seek another  term, and the opposition has concentrated its efforts on demanding  an early resignation, riding a wave of popular discontent over the  economic crisis.
The call for Yeltsin to step down was backed by many  participants in a nationwide labor action earlier this month that  attracted about 1 million people.
Yeltsin's growing health problems  would also seem to rule out another election campaign.
A respiratory  infection forced him to cut short a trip to Central Asia earlier this  week.
On Wednesday, parliament's upper chamber, the Federation Council,  voted on a resolution calling on Yeltsin to resign, but it failed  narrowly.
Even if had passed, the move would have had no legal consequences,  but it highlighted growing anti-Yeltsin sentiments in the chamber  made up of powerful regional leaders, most of whom have been loyal  to the president.
Mikhail Mityukov, the presidential representative  on the Constitutional Court, said Thursday that Yeltsin would ignore  calls for an early resignation.
``The president is a strong person,  and he has been through far more difficult political situations,''  Mityukov said, according to the Interfax news agency.
Russia's Constitutional Court opened hearings Thursday on whether  Boris Yeltsin can seek a third term.
The issue was controversial earlier  this year when Yeltsin refused to spell out his intentions and his  aides insisted he had the legal right to seek re-election.
It has  lost some of its urgency, as Yeltsin has grown physically and politically  weaker and has said he will not run again.
The court will take at  least a week to consider the issue, the Interfax news agency reported.
The Russian Constitution has a two-term limit for presidents.
But  Yeltsin's aides say his first term, from 1991 to 1996, does not count  because it began six months before the Soviet Union collapsed and  before the current constitution took effect.
Communists and other  Yeltsin opponents in parliament's lower house, the State Duma, disagreed  and appealed to the Constitutional Court in February.
While the case  has been waiting to be heard, events have overtaken it.
Yeltsin has  flatly said he will not seek another term, and the opposition has  concentrated its efforts on demanding an early resignation, riding  a wave of popular discontent over the economic crisis.
The call for  Yeltsin to step down was backed by many participants in a nationwide  labor action earlier this month that attracted about 1 million people.
Yeltsin's growing health problems would also seem to rule out another  election campaign.
A respiratory infection forced him to cut short  a trip to Central Asia earlier this week.
On Wednesday, parliament's  upper chamber, the Federation Council, voted on a resolution calling  on Yeltsin to resign, but it failed narrowly.
Even if had passed,  the move would have had no legal consequences, but it highlighted  growing anti-Yeltsin sentiments in the chamber made up of powerful  regional leaders, most of whom have been loyal to the president.
Mikhail  Mityukov, the presidential representative on the Constitutional Court,  said Thursday that Yeltsin would ignore calls for an early resignation.
``The president is a strong person, and he has been through far more  difficult political situations,'' Mityukov said, according to Interfax.
Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who is still recuperating from his  latest illness, has canceled a trip to an Asian summit next month,  his office said Friday.
Government sources said the president has  also called off a visit to Austria later this month, but the Kremlin  said those plans were still going forward.
Yeltsin has decided to  send Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov to the November summit of the  Asia-Pacific Economic Forum in Kuala Lumpur because it deals mostly  with financial issues, Yeltsin's office said.
But sources in Primakov's  office said the cancellation was due to concerns about how the long  flight might effect the president's health.
The president has been  suffering from bronchitis and a cold this week, which forced him to  cut short a visit to Central Asia on Monday.
He was spending Friday  at a country home outside Moscow after defying the orders of his doctors  and working in the Kremlin for the past two days.
Aides said the president's  condition was ``satisfactory.''
Yeltsin is still planning to go to  Vienna for an Oct. 27-28 summit of European nations, the president's  office said.
In another development, Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov, considered  a potential presidential candidate, said Thursday that he wouldn't  exclude the possibility of Yeltsin's resignation for health reasons.
In an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp., he stopped short  of calling on Yeltsin to step down.
But Luzhkov has always been supportive  of Yeltsin and had never before questioned the president's health  or ability to govern.
``According to our constitution, the president  himself has to say he is not able to work,'' Luzhkov said in an interview  with the BBC in Moscow.
``And because of (Yeltsin's) poor health,  he is no longer able to give the country as much time as it demands.''
Luzhkov's spokesman Mikhail Solomentsev refused to elaborate on the  statement.
Yeltsin has a long history of health problems, including  a heart bypass surgery two years ago.
Each new ailment rekindles speculation  about his fitness to govern.
The president and his doctors say Yeltsin  has no serious health problems and will serve out the final two years  of his term.
The government suit against Microsoft is the most aggressive antitrust case in a quarter century.
The heart of the case is the Internet browser battle between Microsoft and Netscape.
Microsoft says that its Internet Explorer is an integral part of its Windows system, the industry dominant operating system.
Microsoft, it is argued, has told computer manufacturers that if they want Windows, they must forgo Netscape.
The Justice Department and 20 states are joined in the action brought under the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, usually seen as a visionary is portrayed in much darker tones in the trial.
Business rivals are seeking to break Microsoft Corp.'s monopoly on computer operating systems.
The Government and 20 states have filed an anti-trust suit against Microsoft, invoking the Sherman Anti-trust Act of 1890.
The suit began with a Microsoft vs Netscape battle over browser software but now extends far beyond that aiming at Microsoft's overall aggressive anti-competitive conduct.
The effort is extensive but inconsistent because of the ambiguity of anti-trust laws, especially the Sherman Act.
The Government is examining Microsoft's financial records and painting a dark image of its Chairman Bill Gates.
An unpublished book may be crucial to the trial.
In 1998 the Justice Department filed a civil suit against Microsoft to change its 9-year pattern of anti-competitive conduct.
Bill Gates appears a schemer ready to crush competitors by any means.
He uses Microsoft's clout to squelch internet competition.
A 1996 Netscape complaint over browsers was central to the case, which grew to include Intel, IBM, Sun, Apple, AOL, and Intuit.
Microsoft was ordered to let Justice examine its records and sought a trial delay.
An unpublished book provided evidence.
The 1890 Sherman Anti-Trust Act centered on Standard Oil and was intended to protect consumers, but its wording is broad and rulings have been ambiguous.
The Justice Department and 20 states filed a suit against Microsoft for violation of the Sherman Act, charging it illegally tried to use its dominance as the provider of Windows, the industry standard operating system, to stifle competition in other areas.
At the heart of the case are Microsoft's contracts with computer manufacturers that prohibit them from substituting Netscape's Navigator browser for Microsoft's Internet Explorer, but Justice also alleges Microsoft exhibited a broad pattern of anti-competitive conduct with numerous other software companies.
Microsoft says that Windows and its browser is one tool that offers immediate consumer benefit.
In the summer of 1995, a whiff of revolution was in the air in Silicon  Valley.
The Internet offered a new deal in computing, a fresh opportunity  for entrepreneurs to try to break Microsoft Corp.'s firm grip on the  personal computer software business.
Leading the challenge was Netscape  Communications Corp., whose software for browsing the World Wide Web  had ignited the Internet boom.
Netscape chairman James Clark spoke  boldly of attacking Microsoft head-on.
He borrowed imagery from the  movie ``Star Wars,'' referring to Microsoft as the Death Star and  Netscape as the leader of a rebel alliance.
Microsoft answered with  a vengeance.
It dispatched hundreds of programmers to work on a competing  browser and poured many millions of dollars into marketing it.
It  prodded computer makers and others to distribute its browser, folded  the browser into its industry-dominant Windows operating system and  a campaign intended to ``cut off their  air supply,'' as a senior Microsoft executive described it.
But not  only competitors like Netscape have encountered Microsoft's force.
Microsoft's partners, its corporate customers and professional investors  who finance new ventures have all collided with it.
A close look at  Microsoft's no-holds-barred push into the Internet software business  offers a window into the ways the company uses its market muscle to  influence the behavior of virtually every player in the industry.
Some of the cases recounted here figure prominently in the suit brought  by the Justice Department and 20 states, scheduled to go to trial  this month, charging that Microsoft at times went too far _ and violated  antitrust laws.
Regardless of the legal outcome, previously unreported  details about incidents in the suit and the other examples provide  a more complete picture of Microsoft in action.
_ When Compaq Computer  Corp. considered loading Netscape's browser instead of Microsoft's  on its personal computers, Microsoft threatened to stop selling its  Windows operating system to Compaq.
The company quickly changed its  mind.
_ After Spyglass Inc. began supplying Microsoft with its early  browser technology, Microsoft announced that it would give away its  browser free.
The timing came as a rude surprise to its partner Spyglass.
The company lost most of its revenues almost overnight, as the technology,  which it had also been licensing to companies besides Microsoft, suddenly  became available free.
_ When America Online Inc., which competes  fiercely with Microsoft's online service and electronic commerce divisions,  went shopping for browser technology, Microsoft made an offer that  was too good to pass up: If America Online used Microsoft's browser  as the main one for its millions of subscribers, Microsoft would give  America Online prime placement on the desktop screen of all personal  computers using Windows.
_ When Intel Corp. began developing its own  Internet software, Microsoft complained.
Intel, the leading maker  of the microprocessors that serve as the electronic brains on most  personal computers running Windows, pulled back.
The chip maker decided  that its lucrative hand-in-glove partnership with Microsoft took priority.
_ Microsoft's reach in computing has become so pervasive that nearly  every year now, Silicon Valley's top venture capitalists meet privately  with a team of top Microsoft executives to learn about the company's  plans.
The goal, one venture investor observed, was to ``stay out  of the way of the steamroller.''
Microsoft adamantly denies that it  has broken any laws in these or similar situations.
The company plays  the game of business hard, and its executives acknowledge that without  apology.
Yes, Microsoft says, rivals may suffer and partners may be  irritated occasionally.
But the company insists its actions are guided  by its main corporate goal of bringing new technology inexpensively  and conveniently to the millions of people who use its software.
Most  people in the computer industry say that living in Microsoft's world  means routinely making accommodations to it.
Microsoft's power emanates  from its near-monopoly on the market for personal computer operating  systems, the master control programs that run computers.
``Because  it owns the operating system, Microsoft is the essential utility of  the information age,'' said James Moore, president of Geopartners  Research Inc., a technology consulting firm.
``It acts as a kind of  gatekeeper to the pipeline of computing innovation, sitting there  and deciding whether to help some innovation or slow it down.''
For  months, Microsoft and Netscape had talked on and off, circling each  other warily.
But the event that would define them as unflinching  rivals was a meeting on June 21, 1995, in a second-floor conference  room at Netscape's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif.
That meeting,  according to the Justice Department and 20 states suing Microsoft,  was the high-tech equivalent of the storied gatherings in smoke-filled  railroad cars that inspired passage of the nation's antitrust laws  a century ago.
On that day, they say, Microsoft made Netscape an illegal  offer to divvy up the market for Internet browsing software, a collusion  pact that Netscape rejected.
Microsoft replies that the prosecutors  are misinterpreting a routine meeting in the software business and  that the company has never tried to divide the browser market.
Bill  Gates, Microsoft's chairman and principal strategist, did not attend  the Mountain View gathering, but he consulted by telephone with the  Microsoft team.
Two people who did attend that June meeting have been  named as witnesses in the trial scheduled to begin next week: Netscape  president James Barksdale and Daniel Rosen, Microsoft's general manager  of new technology.
In the trial, the government will contend that  Microsoft presented Netscape with an all-or-nothing offer, according  to people who have been questioned in the federal investigation.
Relying  heavily on notes taken in the meeting by Netscape executive vice president  Marc Andreessen and on the testimony of Barksdale, prosecutors are  expected to assert that the Microsoft proposal had several elements,  both incentives and requirements.
Microsoft, according to the people  questioned by the government, would invest in Netscape, taking a 15  to 20 percent stake, give Netscape technical information and fine-tune  Microsoft's operating systems so that Netscape's software would run  better on Windows.
In return, the people say, Netscape would give  Microsoft a seat on its board, license its technology to Microsoft,  give Microsoft advance knowledge of its product-development efforts  and not make a browser for the next generation of the Microsoft operating  system, Windows 95, which was shipped two months after the June 1995  meeting.
And Microsoft, the people added, did what it has always denied  it does _ used access to its technology as a powerful lever in business  negotiations, by offering Netscape preferential access to the Windows  ``application program interfaces,'' or APIs, the links that enable  other companies' programs to run smoothly on the Windows operating  system.
By turning down the deal, Netscape, they say, would not have  that preferred access to Microsoft technology _ a threat that Microsoft  fiercely denies making.
Barksdale, Netscape's 55-year-old chief executive,  told a colleague that the encounter with Microsoft in June 1995 was  ``the damnedest meeting I've ever attended in 35 years in business.''
Had Netscape accepted Microsoft's offer, it would have had Microsoft's  money and its endorsement.
Netscape would have also been free to sell  its browser for use in earlier versions of Windows and for use on  other operating systems like Apple's Macintosh and Unix, a powerful  system used mainly in corporations and research labs.
``But if we  had licensed our technology to Microsoft and stepped aside, the best  we could have hoped for was becoming a company with sales of $100  million or so and hoping to be bought out by Microsoft,'' said Clark,  a former computer scientist at Stanford University who founded Silicon  Graphics Inc., a computer graphics pioneer, before starting Netscape.
``We didn't start Netscape for that.''
For any company, a meeting  with Microsoft is often a charged affair.
Every computing device from  keyboards to disk drives, and every software program from games to  browsers, must mesh smoothly with Microsoft's Windows operating system.
This is necessary to make computers reliable and easier to use, but  it also gives Microsoft its role as the industry's gatekeeper.
And  since Microsoft itself makes all manner of software products beyond  the operating system, other companies are put in the uneasy position  of requiring Microsoft's cooperation to be able to compete against  it.
And in the software industry, where every program is rendered  in the digital code of 1's and 0's, the lines that divide competition  and cooperation are often blurred.
The talk about that line at the  Microsoft-Netscape meeting focused on the division between the operating  system _ the ``platform,'' in computer terms _ and the application  programs, sometimes called ``solutions,'' that run on top of the operating  system.
The government suit states that in sworn testimony, Chris  Jones, a Microsoft manager who attended the meeting, ``admitted that  Microsoft `absolutely' intended to persuade Netscape not to compete.''
Microsoft reads Jones' testimony very differently, as evidence mainly  of the company's clarifying its position.
If Netscape stayed on the  applications or solutions side of the operating system, the two companies  could be partners, Microsoft said.
But if Netscape tried to become  a player in the platform space, they would compete.
Microsoft released  portions of the Jones deposition in September as evidence that the  government had quoted the Microsoft manager out of context.
Q. Do  you recall any discussion about a desire of anybody on the part of  Microsoft who was participating to be able to persuade or influence  Netscape not to compete?
A. Absolutely.
But again, persuade in the  sense of force or persuade in the sense of, hey, we think we can have  a great business relationship together.
Later in the deposition, a  Justice Department lawyer asked Jones whether any of the Microsoft  executives intended to suggest that ``there would be any consequences  to Netscape or its business if Netscape chose to go in the platform  direction you've described earlier as opposed to the solutions direction.''
Jones replied: ``The conversation was something like the following:  `We're in the platform business.
We're going to invest heavily in  this part of the platform because we feel it's critical to our technologies.
That's a done deal.'
And we're asking them: `What is your business?
Is your business platforms or solutions?
If it's platforms, we're  in the platforms business.
We're competing.'''
Microsoft portrays  such comments as innocuous statements of fact.
But to Netscape, the  same remarks could be taken as a warning, if not a threat.
This is  because Internet browsing software had the potential to become an  alternative platform to the Windows operating system.
The browser,  sitting on top of the operating system, could supplant Windows as  the main desktop screen on users' machines and the main layer of programming  for starting other software applications.
In addition, Netscape's  browser could serve as a powerful platform for distributing and running  Java, an Internet programming language developed by Sun Microsystems  Inc., a Microsoft rival.
In technical terms, Netscape's upstart platform  could replace Microsoft's APIs as the essential utility of computing.
Indeed, Andreessen had boasted in public of Netscape's ambition to  relegate Microsoft's Windows to so much software plumbing underneath  the browser.
By the June meeting, Microsoft certainly viewed Netscape  as a serious potential challenger to Windows, the corporate crown  jewel.
On May 26, 1995, in an internal memo, ``The Internet Tidal  Wave,'' Gates wrote: ``A new competitor `born' on the Internet is  Netscape.
Their browser is dominant with 70 percent usage share, allowing  them to determine which network extensions will catch on.''
Netscape's  strategy, Gates wrote, was to ``move the key API'' into the browser  ``to commoditize the underlying operating system.''
THE BROADER INQUIRY:  GOVERNMENT SEES ARM-TWISTING The federal government and the states  have recently broadened their allegations against Microsoft by adding  evidence that it tried to bully Intel, Apple Computer Inc. and other  companies to squelch competition.
They say that like the Netscape  meeting the new evidence fits a pattern of behavior by Microsoft,  which has repeatedly tried to limit competition by strong-arming competitors  and partners.
One episode that fits the pattern, the prosecutors contend,  was an effort by Microsoft to pressure Intel to shelve the development  of multimedia and Internet software and to limit its cooperation with  Netscape.
Intel's main business is making the microprocessor chips  that act as the electronic brains of most of the computers that run  the Windows operating system.
Indeed, the fortunes of Intel and Microsoft  are so closely aligned that the two companies are sometimes referred  to as a single, powerful entity, ``Wintel.''
But Intel also employs  hundreds of software engineers, mainly at its Intel Architecture Labs  in Hillsboro, Ore.
And while Intel and Microsoft are partners, they  have also had their conflicts, typically over the direction and pace  at which certain innovations should be introduced into the personal  computer industry, which they dominate together.
Federal and state  investigators have focused on Microsoft's strong reaction to work  being done by Intel's software engineers _ a sentiment expressed in  no uncertain terms during a meeting at Intel's Santa Clara, Calif.,  headquarters on Aug. 2, 1995.
The contentious session was attended  by several executives from Intel and Microsoft, including Gates and  Intel chairman Andrew Grove.
An internal Intel memo stated that Gates  made ``vague threats'' about supporting Intel's competitors and that  he was ``livid'' about Intel's ``investments in the Internet and wanted  them stopped.''
Later, Intel did pull back from its multimedia and  Internet software development.
Steven McGeady, an Intel vice president  who attended the August 1995 meeting, is scheduled to appear as a  witness for the government.
Microsoft replies that the government's  accounts of meetings like those with Netscape and Intel are fanciful  distortions, created by using a biased selection of documents and  witnesses.
The government's case, Microsoft asserts, betrays an utter  failure to accept the computer-industry reality that Microsoft routinely  meets with companies to make sure their software and equipment will  work well with Windows.
Sometimes the talks, Microsoft says, go on  to include further levels of cooperation like licensing technology  or a Microsoft investment, as the company discussed with Netscape.
In the trial, Microsoft is expected to argue its advance in the browser  market was the result of its own business acumen and Netscape's missteps.
To document Netscape's errors, Microsoft issued a subpoena last month  and obtained the unpublished manuscript of a new book, ``Competing  on Internet Time: Lessons From Netscape and Its Battle With Microsoft,''  which is based on hundreds of interviews with current and former Netscape  executives.
The book does chronicle the mistakes made by Netscape.
But its authors, Michael Cusumano of the Massachusetts Institute of  Technology's Sloan School of Management and David Yoffie of the Harvard  Business School, think Microsoft is hardly blameless.
``Microsoft's  take-no-prisoners strategy backfired, all but inviting retaliation  from competitors, the government and even customers,'' Yoffie said.
Emphasizing that he was offering no legal judgment, Yoffie added,  ``I think Microsoft could have achieved 90 percent of what it did  without crossing the line as much as it did.''
THE SPYGLASS LINK:  REWARDS AND PERILS OF A PARTNERSHIP On April 6, 1994, Gates and 20  Microsoft executives gathered for a daylong retreat not far from the  company's headquarters in Redmond, Wash.
The subject was the Internet  and how it might revolutionize the computer software business.
Few  concrete plans were made that day, but Microsoft executives insist  that a direction was set.
``Our vision from the outset was to unite  the two worlds of the Windows desktop and the Internet,'' said Steven  Sinofsky, a Microsoft executive who attended the meeting.
Yet Microsoft  badly trailed Netscape in the browser field.
To hasten its entry,  Microsoft licensed its early browsing software from Spyglass Inc.
of Naperville, Ill.
The first meeting between the two companies was  initiated by Spyglass in April 1994.
At the time, it was a tiny company  and eager to do a deal with Microsoft.
Spyglass was selected as the  commercial licensee for browser technology developed by the National  Center for Supercomputing at the University of Illinois.
In the summer  of 1994, Douglas Colbeth, president of Spyglass, met with Clark of  Netscape at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.
The two men talked  in the United Airlines Red Carpet Room, reserved for business-class  passengers, and Colbeth recalled Clark telling him, ``We're going  to take Microsoft head-on.''
At the time, Colbeth recalled thinking  to himself, ``Great, now Microsoft will really want to license from  me.''
Today, he noted: ``Remember, we were a company with a couple  dozen people and almost no money in the bank.
Netscape had Jim Clark,  with his money and reputation, and big-time venture capital backing  from Silicon Valley.
Netscape had a very different agenda.''
By July  1994, Microsoft had become quite interested in the Spyglass technology,  Colbeth says, and the two companies signed their first licensing agreement  the following December.
Microsoft, Colbeth recalls, always told him  that it would eventually fold browser technology into its operating  system, but its timing was accelerated by Netscape's rapid rise.
``Microsoft  was initially hoping to charge for the browser,'' Colbeth said.
But  on Dec. 7, 1995, Gates declared that Microsoft would not only deeply  integrate its browser into Windows but would give it away.
The announcement  caught the industry, even Colbeth, by surprise.
At the time, Spyglass  had licensed its technology to 82 other companies, including IBM and  Digital Equipment, for use in their software products _ a licensing  revenue stream of about $20 million a year.
As a result of Microsoft's  move, Spyglass saw those revenues vanish within a year, as smaller  Internet software companies went out of business and big customers  shifted to Microsoft's free browser.
Spyglass slashed its payroll  and scrambled into new niches of the software industry to replace  its lost sales, which it succeeded in doing eventually.
``Whenever  you license technology to Microsoft, you have to understand it can  someday build it itself, drop it into the operating system and put  you out of that business,'' Colbeth said.
THE NONOPTION COMPAQ: SUDDENLY  SEES THE LIGHT Well into 1996, Netscape's share of the browser market  continued to rise, while Microsoft made little headway, even though  its browser was free.
Industry analysts and trade magazines agreed  that Netscape's browser was the clear technical leader.
In April 1996,  Netscape's Navigator was used by 87 percent of people browsing the  Web, compared with 4 percent using Microsoft's Internet Explorer,  according to Zona Research.
So the biggest personal computer maker,  Compaq, thought it made sense to give customers Netscape's browser  instead of Microsoft's.
But Microsoft would not stand for that _ and  Compaq had no choice but to give in.
In June 1996, Compaq wanted not  only to load the more popular Netscape browser on its machines but  also to remove the icon for Microsoft's Internet Explorer, which was  delivered to the computer maker with Windows 95.
Microsoft informed  Compaq that if it removed Internet Explorer, the computer maker would  lose its license for Windows, said Stephen Decker, Compaq's director  of software procurement, in testimony to federal investigators.
The  ultimatum from Microsoft was delivered bluntly in a letter headed,  ``Notice of Intent to Terminate License Agreement.''
Faced with being  denied the essential operating system, Compaq quickly reversed course  and kept the Internet Explorer icon.
Microsoft asserts that Windows  and Internet Explorer are a single product and that Microsoft alone  defines what is in the product.
Nothing in its contracts, Microsoft  adds, prohibits computer makers from including competing technologies.
While the cutoff letter Microsoft sent to Compaq seems an unnecessarily  hardball tactic when dealing with its largest corporate customer,  Microsoft chief operating officer Bob Herbold insists that ``to take  one letter here or one snippet of e-mail there to try to portray Microsoft  as an arrogant company is unfair.''
Noting that a Compaq executive  is a witness for Microsoft, Herbold said, ``We are totally dependent  on tremendous relationships with key companies like Compaq.''
At Netscape,  however, the Compaq episode was a watershed.
``That was the singular  act that got me going to the Justice Department,'' Barksdale recalled.
Barksdale said he regarded Microsoft's tactic of forcing Compaq to  buy its browser as a condition of obtaining an essential product,  the Windows operating system, as ``an illegal act and absolute proof  that Microsoft was a monopolist.''
After investigating the incident,  the Justice Department and the states agreed with Barksdale that Microsoft  was illegally tying the sale of one product to another.
Microsoft  replies that it has a long history of adding new features to its operating  system.
And from the outset, Microsoft says, it intended that Windows  and its Internet Explorer browser would be seamlessly integrated,  as they are now in Windows 98.
Thus, Microsoft insists, there is no  product-tying violation of antitrust laws.
In a separate case, a federal  appeals court sided with Microsoft, upholding the principle that the  company could put whatever it wanted to in its operating system and  declare it a single product.
But in June 1996, when Compaq wanted  to offer the Netscape product instead of Microsoft's browser, most  industry experts viewed the browser and operating system as two different  software programs.
``It took a long time for the integration strategy  to play out,'' said a former senior Microsoft researcher.
``Back then,  integration was basically bolting a browser onto Windows.''
THE `BALANCING  ACT': AMERICA ONLINE TOSSES IN TOWEL America Online chairman Stephen  Case refers to dealing with Microsoft as ``a delicate balancing act.''
That balance swung sharply from the fall of 1995 to the spring of  1996, when Microsoft used the lure of giving America Online a featured  place on the Windows desktop as the ultimate bargaining chip.
To gain  access to computing's most coveted real estate, America Online agreed  to make Microsoft's Internet Explorer the main browser for its online  subscribers, who now number more than 13 million.
Yet throughout 1995,  as Microsoft prepared to introduce Windows 95, the most significant  improvement ever in its operating system, Case was knocking on the  door of the Justice Department.
His complaint was that Microsoft was  going to place its new online service, Microsoft Network, a direct  competitor to America Online, prominently on the desktop screen of  Windows 95, which was introduced in August.
This bundling tactic of  using the industry-dominant operating system to market Microsoft Network,  or MSN, Case argued, gave Microsoft an unfair advantage in the young  but fast-growing online business.
The Justice Department listened  and investigated.
But ultimately, the government decided against taking  any action.
At America Online's headquarters in Vienna, Va., Microsoft  was both feared and loathed at the time.
America Online had a designated  ``Microsoft watcher,'' a young M.B.A. who tracked its adversary's  every move.
Above the desk in his small, windowless office was a picture  of Gates.
Beneath the picture, in large block letters, were the words  ``THE ENEMY.''
Though America Online was the clear leader in the online  services business, it had ample reason to worry about an all-out assault  by a rival as rich and aggressive as Microsoft.
When he had visited  the Microsoft headquarters a couple of years earlier, Case recalled,  Gates had bluntly assessed Microsoft's options by saying he could  buy 20 percent of America Online, all of it or enter the online business  on his own and ``bury you.''
A threat or merely a statement of the  facts?
``A bit of both,'' Case said recently.
``But he was mainly  articulating what everybody at that meeting kind of intuitively understood.''
Yet by 1996, Microsoft and America Online found they had reason to  cooperate.
With the exploding popularity of the Internet's World Wide  Web, the conventional online companies, like America Online and Compuserve,  had to provide their customers Internet access as well as their own  services.
America Online had its own browser, but to keep pace with  the rapidly advancing technology it made sense to do a deal with Netscape  or Microsoft.
For both software companies, a deal with America Online,  which had 5 million subscribers at the time, could mean a big surge  in browser use and market share.
Netscape seemed the natural partner  for America Online, since both companies were Microsoft rivals.
On  March 11, America Online did announce that it would buy Netscape technology,  but it was a standard licensing deal based on a payment-for-use formula.
The next day, America Online announced a more significant deal with  Microsoft making its browser the default technology _ the browser  America Online subscribers would use unless they specifically asked  for Netscape's Navigator.
To win the deal, Microsoft offered to give  America Online a start-up icon on the Windows desktop _ precisely  the kind of equal treatment on the main Windows screen that Case had  asked the Justice Department to require of Microsoft.
``After we agreed  to its Internet Explorer browser, Microsoft allowed us to be bundled  on the Windows desktop,'' Case said.
``It was an example of Microsoft's  pragmatic side.''
The pragmatic decision was that the paramount corporate  goal was to increase browser market share to protect the mainstay  software business.
As a result, its new online service, MSN, would  have to sacrifice an important marketing advantage over its main rival,  America Online.
``It was Bill's decision,'' said former MSN general  manager Russell Siegelman, referring to Gates.
``He sent me e-mail  on it.
He said he didn't think it would hurt MSN that much.
I disagreed  with him.''
To other Microsoft executives, Gates expressed a different  view of the likely impact on MSN.
He told senior vice president Brad  Silverberg that putting America Online on the Windows desktop would  amount to ``putting a bullet through MSN's head,'' according to a  deposition taken by the Justice Department.
In the antitrust suit,  the government asserts that the America Online deal shows how Microsoft  used the power of its Windows monopoly to give it an edge in the browser  war against Netscape.
David Colburn, a senior vice president of America  Online who took part in the browser negotiations with Microsoft, is  a witness for the government.
Today, Microsoft has overhauled its  Internet strategy to focus mainly on building popular special-interest  Web sites in fields like travel, personal finance, automobile retailing  and news.
And it is putting these sites, along with e-mail and search  features, in an all-in-one site that uses the name MSN.com.
``I still  regard Microsoft as a primary threat,'' Case observed.
``Microsoft  has a history of getting it right in the long run, and there's no  reason to think it won't in this business as well.
We will always  be in Microsoft's cross hairs.''
THE LESSON: DON'T CONFRONT A STEAMROLLER  At Netscape's headquarters in Silicon Valley, the strategy today is  one of avoiding head-to-head competition with Microsoft whenever possible.
``Don't do something that is in Microsoft's path _ that's the lesson  learned,'' observed Clark, the Netscape chairman.
Silicon Valley's  venture capitalists, the investors who finance so many of the nation's  high-tech startups, generally follow the Netscape formula these days.
Yet that still leaves ample room to prosper.
For while competing directly  with Microsoft is dangerous, the software industry as a whole is an  engine of wealth creation, job generation and technical innovation.
And there is an ambivalent side to the venture community's relationship  with Microsoft.
For if a start-up cannot steer clear of Microsoft  entirely, the favored option is to be bought out by Microsoft, which  has scooped up many fledgling companies as a way of acquiring promising  technology and people.
``Microsoft understands start-up innovation  and how to co-opt start-up innovation better than any other high-tech  company,'' said James Breyer, managing partner of Accel Partners,  a venture capital firm.
As Microsoft has grown, it has come to be  seen not merely as a competitor but as a force of nature that shapes  the business environment, like a weather front.
``Microsoft is incredibly  pervasive,'' said Stewart Alsop, a partner with New Enterprise Associates,  a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif.
At the board meetings  of the companies in which his firm has invested, two issues always  come up, he said: ``One is the price of the company's stock, and the  other is what Microsoft is going to do.''
In the last few years, Microsoft  has offered its guidance during almost yearly meetings between senior  Microsoft executives and leading venture capitalists.
The meetings  are part of Microsoft's effort to improve its sometimes prickly relations  with Silicon Valley.
``We work hard to provide clarity about where  we're going and where we're not going,'' said Greg Maffei, Microsoft's  chief financial officer.
Last year's conference took place in October  at the Quadrus office building on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, the  Wall Street of high-tech venture investing.
Maffei led a team of five  Microsoft executives who appeared before a group of 40 venture capitalists,  one of whom stood and asked the question that seemed to be on the  minds of many of his peers: ``How do I invest in a company that stays  out of the way of the steamroller?''
Maffei, recalled one person who  attended the meeting, stood up and delivered a brief lecture on businesses  that Microsoft was likely to avoid.
His list included specialized  software for manufacturing, human resources management, computer-aided  design and others.
But, this person noted, broad swaths of the industry  appeared to be designated as off limits _ including new software platforms  that might compete with Microsoft's personal computer operating system.
At one point, Ruthann Quindlen, a partner with Institutional Venture  Partners, leaned over to Vinod Khosla, a co-founder of Sun Microsystems  and a partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield  &AMP; Byers, and said quietly, ``I guess that leaves us washing machines  and toasters.''
A federal judge Friday pushed back the starting date of the antitrust  trial against Microsoft Corp. by four days, to Oct. 19, while also  ordering the company to comply with the Justice Department's request  to examine Microsoft's financial records.
Microsoft argued that allowing  ``an army of government attorneys to come in and make demands will  make it very difficult for us to remain in business.''
But after winning  assurances from government lawyers that they would make only narrow,  targeted searches of the records, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson of  the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ordered Microsoft  to open the database for perusal.
Microsoft had asked that the trial  be delayed several more months to prepare a defense against what it  said was a last minute broadening of the case by the Justice Department,  which had added new evidence.
Last month, the government said that  in the process of preparing for the trial it had discovered that Microsoft  tried to persuade Apple Computer not to market its Quicktime multimedia  software to Windows customers.
On Thursday, the Justice Department  and 20 states added two new people to their witness list to testify  about Microsoft dealings with Apple and with Sun Microsystems.
Avi  Tevanian, a former Apple executive, was added to the witness list  in part to describe Microsoft's proposal, which Microsoft denies ever  having made.
The other new witness was James Gosling, a Sun executive  who led the development of Java, an Internet programming language  that Microsoft sees as a potential threat to the company's dominance  of the software market.
The government is charging that Microsoft  took illegal steps to prevent Java from gaining wide acceptance.
To  counter that, Microsoft named two new witnesses Friday, Robert Muglia,  a senior Microsoft executive who has worked with Sun, and Chris Engstrom,  an executive who handled some of Microsoft's dealings with Apple.
At the same time, John Warden, Microsoft's lawyer, argued that the  new allegations had no place in the case.
The Justice Department,  Warden told the judge, was ``trying to turn this into something approximating  a plenary monopoly case like the IBM case.''
``It becomes clearer  and clearer and clearer with each new filing that they are trying  to turn this into a broader case,'' he said.
``You can't have this  bait-and-switch in which they file a complaint alleging A, B, C, and  then talk about the whole alphabet three times over.''
As a result,  Warden said, Microsoft wanted, at a minimum, another two-week delay,  even though ``a more normal schedule'' would have the trial start  next year.
The judge did not respond.
Instead he entered an order  setting the Oct. 19 trial date.
Late Friday, Microsoft entered a formal  motion asking for another two-week delay.
A response is expected next  week.
Microsoft Corp. has said that material in an unpublished book by two  business school professors will be a crucial part of its defense in  the antitrust trial scheduled to begin next week.
But judging from  an advance copy of the manuscript, the Justice Department and 20 states  that are suing the software giant will find support for their arguments  in the book as well.
To cite one example, Microsoft contends that  its industry-standard Windows operating system and its Internet Explorer  browser are a single integrated product.
In its suit, the government  asserts that they are two separate products that Microsoft bundled  together to get an unfair edge over its rival, Netscape Communications  Corp., in the market for software used to browse the Internet's World  Wide Web.
In ``Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and  Its Battle with Microsoft,'' the authors, Michael A. Cusumano of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management  and David B. Yoffie of the Harvard business school, quote a Microsoft  executive as saying that only with the third version of Microsoft's  browser was it integrated with Windows.
Microsoft hurried its first  browser offerings into the market, the book says, in its race to catch  up with Netscape, then took a more ambitious approach with Internet  Explorer 3.0, which was introduced in August 1996.
In that version  it changed its software design to use programming modules, or components,  that could be put together and rearragned like building blocks.
In  the book, Ben Slivka, a Microsoft general manager, is quoted as saying,  ``IE 3.0 was the key thing because we did the componentized browser,''  He added, ``We really made Internet Explorer part of the Windows platform.''
The timing could be legally significant because in its suit the government  cites as evidence requests before August 1996 by personal computer  makers that wanted to load Netscape's browser on their machines instead  of Microsoft's browser.
Microsoft denied the requests, insisting its  browers and Windows were a single, integrated product.
Microsoft's  legal team obtained an early manuscript of the new book last month,  by issuing a subpoena to a Netscape executive who was given a confidential  copy by the authors to review.
Microsoft has also sought the transcripts  of 44 current and former Netscape employees interviewed by the authors.
A federal judge in Boston last week denied Microsoft access to that  research materials, but the company may appeal the ruling.
The new  book, published by the Free Press imprint of Simon &AMP; Schuster,  is being hurried into print so it can be shipped within days of the  start of the Microsoft trial on Oct. 19.
But already, a few quotes  from Netscape executives have leaked out.
The authors decided to send  the complete manuscript to The New York Times and three other news  organizations Monday, so that the material could be read in context.
Microsoft intends to use material from the book as evidence that Netscape's  troubles resulted largely from its own missteps rather than from any  alleged predatory practices by Microsoft.
The book does detail where  Netscape stumbled, shifting its strategy too often and running into  obstacles in its software development efforts.
In private antitrust  suits, the argument that the competitor was his own worst enemy is  an established defense.
But legal experts say that defense may well  be far less effective in a federal case in which the government is  seeking court-mandated changes in Microsoft's business practices rather  than the monetary damages that are the goal of plaintiffs in private  cases.
``It seems to me that this debate over Netscape's mistakes  is a total sideshow,'' said Robert Litan, a former senior official  in the Justice Department's antitrust division, who is now at the  Brookings Institution.
``But Microsoft has a big legal team, and it  seems they are working on every defense they can find.''
The book  quotes a former Netscape executive, Ram Shriram, as saying the company  bungled a chance to win a sizable share of the browser business from  America Online Inc.
But that was a second-chance to do a deal with  America Online, the leading online service.
The government's case  focuses on an earlier deal in March 1996, when America Online chose  Internet Explorer as its preferred browser; in that bargain Microsoft  agreed to place a startup icon for the online service on the main  the prime real estate in computing.
For a  book entitled ``Competing on Internet Time,'' it is intriguing that  one of its central themes is that Netcape got too wedded to the notion  that the Internet revolution would change everything quickly.
Microsoft,  by contrast, stuck to its three-year planning horizon that enabled  the company, the authors write, to ``mesh its short-run tactical plans  with a broader strategic view of how to win the war.''
The book quotes  Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's president, as saying, ``The fact of the  matter is that customers can't take cataclysmic change every three  months.
The organization also can't.
You can ship products quickly.
But you can't say, `Oh, we have a radically new strategy' every three  months.''
The case of United States vs. Microsoft Corp., the government's most  aggressive move against a monopolist in almost 25 years, is playing  out against a century of antitrust laws so broadly worded and court  rulings so ambiguous that both sides are citing the same rulings to  support their opposing arguments.
Whatever the outcome of the trial,  scheduled to begin Monday in U.S. District Court in Washington, an  almost certain appeal will leave to the Supreme Court the task of  bringing legal order to 100 years of clashing antitrust doctrines.
The case focuses on Microsoft's Windows, the operating system that  controls about 90 percent of all personal computers sold today.
The  government says its objective is to curb illegal monopolistic business  practices that threaten to render large parts of the economy vulnerable  to the vicissitudes of a single company.
Microsoft asserts that the  case is intended to give the government control over which features  can be added to Windows.
However grand the economic stakes, the legal  dispute is narrow.
The government says that Microsoft's contracts  with computer manufacturers and with companies that provide access  to the Internet illegally stifle competition.
The contracts prohibit  manufacturers from substituting Netscape Communications Corp.'s Navigator  browser for Microsoft's Internet Explorer.
They also prohibit them  from removing from the Windows main screen, or desktop, links to sites  on the World Wide Web run by Microsoft or its partners.
Microsoft's  contracts with companies that connect people to the Internet and with  businesses that sell goods and services on the Web require favored  treatment for Internet Explorer over Navigator in exchange for links  on the Windows desktop.
In the wake of the lawsuit, Microsoft has  voluntarily dropped some of these requirements, though it could reinstate  them at will.
Microsoft says that its contracts are legal because  they produce tangible benefits for customers, including easier Internet  access.
The Justice Department says that the bundling of Explorer  with Windows 95 and the inclusion of the browser as part of Windows  98 amount to ``tying,'' an illegal practice that forces customers  of one product to purchase another.
The contracts with manufacturers  and Internet services are illegal, the government says, because they  are intended not only to create a monopoly in the browser market but  to protect Microsoft's existing monopoly in operating systems.
The  latter threat is key, according to the Justice Department.
Browsers  have the potential, like an operating system, to act as a software  platform on which other programs run.
So contracts intended to drive  browsers out of the market would also insulate the Windows monopoly.
Many antitrust experts say the problem facing the Justice Department  is that the courts have provided no clear definition of tying and  no clear guidelines for determining when contracts are illegally exclusionary.
Professor Lawrence White of New York University, who was chief economist  of the Justice Department's antitrust division in the early 1980s,  says that the courts treat tying as an unusual practice when in fact  it is ubiquitous.
No one, he said, ``would challenge the right of  manufacturers to tie erasers to the tip of pencils, tires to an automobile  or buttons to shirts.''
His point, shared widely among economists,  is that some tying benefits consumers if, for example, it results  in products that are easier to use or enables a company to recover  development costs.
But tying can be bad if it locks in monopoly power.
The courts, White says, have not offered enough guidance for distinguishing  good tying from bad, which is the nub of the legal dispute.
Microsoft  says it needs only to show that bundling Windows and Explorer passes  that it  offers an immediate benefit, whether or not it causes long-term damage  to competition and, therefore, ultimately to consumers.
The Justice  Department says that Microsoft's practices must clear a higher hurdle:  yielding ``net'' consumer benefits that are immediate and large enough  to balance possible long-term harm to competition.
So which test of  consumer benefits satisfies antitrust laws?
The simple answer is that  no one knows for sure, which is why both sides can reasonably cite  the same cases without fear of embarrassment.
Consider a 1985 case,  Aspen Skiing Co. vs. Aspen Highlands Skiing Corp., and a 1951 case,  Lorain Journal Co. vs. United States.
In the first, Aspen Skiing,  the owner of three major ski runs in Aspen, Colo. _ the monopolist  _ had for years sold a ticket in cooperation with Aspen Highlands,  a competitor, that gave skiers access to both companies' runs.
When  Aspen Skiing unilaterally canceled the agreement, its rival's revenues  shriveled and the rival sued.
The Supreme Court ruled that Aspen Skiing  had violated antitrust laws because there was no evidence its action  helped consumers.
In the Lorain Journal case, the only local newspaper  in Lorain, Ohio, refused to sell advertising to companies that advertised  on a new radio station.
Here, too, the Supreme Court ruled that the  exclusionary practice did nothing to benefit consumers.
Indeed, in  Aspen Skiing, the court even forced the monopolist to do business  with its rival, a precedent that augurs well for the Justice Department,  which seeks to force Microsoft to install Netscape's browser alongside  its own.
But Charles Rule, a legal consultant to Microsoft, says that  in both cases the courts threw out exclusionary practices only because  they offered no consumer benefit.
The courts, he argues, never pounced  on practices that resulted in lower prices or better products or service.
Nor did the courts in either case call for balancing immediate benefits  against hypothetical long-term harm.
Rule argues that Microsoft's  practices produce demonstrable consumer benefits.
Besides, he says,  unlike the actions taken by The Lorain Journal or Aspen Skiing, Microsoft's  contracts do not prevent consumers from installing Netscape's browser  or from using the Web sites of Microsoft's rivals.
In truth, though,  neither case answered what consumer benefit test should apply to product  design.
In Jefferson Parish Hospital District No. 2 et al. vs. Hyde,  another case cited by both sides, the Supreme Court in 1984 recognized  that surgeons and anesthesiologists provide an integrated service.
Yet, the court said, a hospital with monopoly power would still not  be allowed to force surgical patients to use its panel of anesthesiologists  if consumers wanted to purchase the two services separately.
That  principle could undercut Microsoft's defense that the functional interdependence  of Windows and Explorer requires bundling.
But Microsoft will point  to a strong concurring opinion that called for a tougher standard  for the government to meet when it alleges tying.
Microsoft will also  draw support from several court rulings that allowed IBM to change  the design of its computers in ways that made it hard for vendors  to attach peripheral equipment.
But perhaps Microsoft's best argument  is that nowhere has the government identified a single case in which  the courts explicitly called for throwing out a tied product on the  basis of a balancing test.
The courts, Microsoft will emphasize, steer  clear of redesigning technically sophisticated products.
The Justice  Department's rejoinder is to note that the sole purpose of antitrust  law is to protect consumers, so it makes no sense to bless practices  that provide a dollar's worth of benefits today but, by stamping out  competition, drive prices up by $1,000 tomorrow.
The Justice Department  will ask the court to at least insist that monopolists use the least  exclusionary means possible to achieve whatever services they provide  customers.
Experts agree that the courts will subject Microsoft's  restrictive contracts with Internet companies to a balancing test.
But exactly how the court will decide whether consumers are helped  or hurt is up for grabs.
A balancing test would have the courts weigh  the immediate benefits to consumers of one-click access to Internet  sites and of features of a bundled Windows-Explorer package versus  the harm over time of diminished competition in the markets for browsers  and operating systems.
But a test that makes good sense in theory  can prove fiendishly difficult to use in practice.
``Balancing tests  are impossibly difficult and arbitrary,'' said Rep. Thomas Campbell,  R-Calif., who is a former law professor at Stanford University.
``The  practical effect of balancing is to hand defendants like Microsoft  almost certain victory.''
Microsoft argues _ and many antitrust experts  agree _ that the courts have in fact gravitated away from a balancing  test toward a simpler ``predation'' test for exclusionary contracts.
Under this standard, a contract is illegal only if it is intended  to drive out competition and thus to pave the way for a monopolist  to raise prices later.
Microsoft will have an easier time defending  itself against a charge of predation, which amounts to victimizing  its customers, than it would defending itself against a charge that  its bundled product does consumers slightly more harm than good.
The  antitrust record, says William Baxter, who headed the antitrust division  under President Reagan, is littered with ``contradictory, ambiguous  and sometimes nonsensical'' verdicts.
He and other legal experts agree  that if nothing else, that record leaves plenty of legal leeway for  the Supreme Court, should it hear the Microsoft case, to stiffen the  spine of the antitrust law.
The case of United States vs. Microsoft Corp., the government's most  aggressive move against a monopolist in almost 25 years, is playing  out against a century of antitrust laws so broadly worded and court  rulings so ambiguous that both sides are citing the same rulings to  support their opposing arguments.
Whatever the outcome of the trial,  scheduled to begin Monday in U.S. District Court in Washington, an  almost certain appeal will leave to the Supreme Court the task of  bringing legal order to 100 years of clashing antitrust doctrines.
The case focuses on Microsoft's Windows, the operating system that  controls about 90 percent of all personal computers sold today.
The  government says its objective is to curb illegal monopolistic business  practices that threaten to render large parts of the economy vulnerable  to the vicissitudes of a single company.
Microsoft asserts that the  case is intended to give the government control over which features  can be added to Windows.
However grand the economic stakes, the legal  dispute is narrow.
The government says that Microsoft's contracts  with computer manufacturers and with companies that provide access  to the Internet illegally stifle competition.
The contracts prohibit  manufacturers from substituting Netscape Communications Corp.'s Navigator  browser for Microsoft's Internet Explorer.
They also prohibit them  from removing from the Windows main screen, or desktop, links to sites  on the World Wide Web run by Microsoft or its partners.
Microsoft's  contracts with companies that connect people to the Internet and with  businesses that sell goods and services on the Web require favored  treatment for Internet Explorer over Navigator in exchange for links  on the Windows desktop.
In the wake of the lawsuit, Microsoft has  voluntarily dropped some of these requirements, though it could reinstate  them at will.
Microsoft says that its contracts are legal because  they produce tangible benefits for customers, including easier Internet  access.
The Justice Department says that the bundling of Explorer  with Windows 95 and the inclusion of the browser as part of Windows  98 amount to ``tying,'' an illegal practice that forces customers  of one product to purchase another.
The contracts with manufacturers  and Internet services are illegal, the government says, because they  are intended not only to create a monopoly in the browser market but  to protect Microsoft's existing monopoly in operating systems.
The  latter threat is key, according to the Justice Department.
Browsers  have the potential, like an operating system, to act as a software  platform on which other programs run.
So contracts intended to drive  browsers out of the market would also insulate the Windows monopoly.
Many antitrust experts say the problem facing the Justice Department  is that the courts have provided no clear definition of tying and  no clear guidelines for determining when contracts are illegally exclusionary.
Professor Lawrence White of New York University, who was chief economist  of the Justice Department's antitrust division in the early 1980s,  says that the courts treat tying as an unusual practice when in fact  it is ubiquitous.
No one, he said, ``would challenge the right of  manufacturers to tie erasers to the tip of pencils, tires to an automobile  or buttons to shirts.''
His point, shared widely among economists,  is that some tying benefits consumers if, for example, it results  in products that are easier to use or enables a company to recover  development costs.
But tying can be bad if it locks in monopoly power.
The courts, White says, have not offered enough guidance for distinguishing  good tying from bad, which is the nub of the legal dispute.
Microsoft  says it needs only to show that bundling Windows and Explorer passes  that it  offers an immediate benefit, whether or not it causes long-term damage  to competition and, therefore, ultimately to consumers.
The Justice  Department says that Microsoft's practices must clear a higher hurdle:  yielding ``net'' consumer benefits that are immediate and large enough  to balance possible long-term harm to competition.
So which test of  consumer benefits satisfies antitrust laws?
The simple answer is that  no one knows for sure, which is why both sides can reasonably cite  the same cases without fear of embarrassment.
Consider a 1985 case,  Aspen Skiing Co. vs. Aspen Highlands Skiing Corp., and a 1951 case,  Lorain Journal Co. vs. United States.
In the first, Aspen Skiing,  the owner of three major ski runs in Aspen, Colo. _ the monopolist  _ had for years sold a ticket in cooperation with Aspen Highlands,  a competitor, that gave skiers access to both companies' runs.
When  Aspen Skiing unilaterally canceled the agreement, its rival's revenues  shriveled and the rival sued.
The Supreme Court ruled that Aspen Skiing  had violated antitrust laws because there was no evidence its action  helped consumers.
In the Lorain Journal case, the only local newspaper  in Lorain, Ohio, refused to sell advertising to companies that advertised  on a new radio station.
Here, too, the Supreme Court ruled that the  exclusionary practice did nothing to benefit consumers.
Indeed, in  Aspen Skiing, the court even forced the monopolist to do business  with its rival, a precedent that augurs well for the Justice Department,  which seeks to force Microsoft to install Netscape's browser alongside  its own.
But Charles Rule, a legal consultant to Microsoft, says that  in both cases the courts threw out exclusionary practices only because  they offered no consumer benefit.
The courts, he argues, never pounced  on practices that resulted in lower prices or better products or service.
Nor did the courts in either case call for balancing immediate benefits  against hypothetical long-term harm.
Rule argues that Microsoft's  practices produce demonstrable consumer benefits.
Besides, he says,  unlike the actions taken by The Lorain Journal or Aspen Skiing, Microsoft's  contracts do not prevent consumers from installing Netscape's browser  or from using the Web sites of Microsoft's rivals.
In truth, though,  neither case answered what consumer benefit test should apply to product  design.
In Jefferson Parish Hospital District No. 2 et al. vs. Hyde,  another case cited by both sides, the Supreme Court in 1984 recognized  that surgeons and anesthesiologists provide an integrated service.
Yet, the court said, a hospital with monopoly power would still not  be allowed to force surgical patients to use its panel of anesthesiologists  if consumers wanted to purchase the two services separately.
That  principle could undercut Microsoft's defense that the functional interdependence  of Windows and Explorer requires bundling.
But Microsoft will point  to a strong concurring opinion that called for a tougher standard  for the government to meet when it alleges tying.
Microsoft will also  draw support from several court rulings that allowed IBM to change  the design of its computers in ways that made it hard for vendors  to attach peripheral equipment.
But perhaps Microsoft's best argument  is that nowhere has the government identified a single case in which  the courts explicitly called for throwing out a tied product on the  basis of a balancing test.
The courts, Microsoft will emphasize, steer  clear of redesigning technically sophisticated products.
The Justice  Department's rejoinder is to note that the sole purpose of antitrust  law is to protect consumers, so it makes no sense to bless practices  that provide a dollar's worth of benefits today but, by stamping out  competition, drive prices up by $1,000 tomorrow.
The Justice Department  will ask the court to at least insist that monopolists use the least  exclusionary means possible to achieve whatever services they provide  customers.
Experts agree that the courts will subject Microsoft's  restrictive contracts with Internet companies to a balancing test.
But exactly how the court will decide whether consumers are helped  or hurt is up for grabs.
A balancing test would have the courts weigh  the immediate benefits to consumers of one-click access to Internet  sites and of features of a bundled Windows-Explorer package versus  the harm over time of diminished competition in the markets for browsers  and operating systems.
But a test that makes good sense in theory  can prove fiendishly difficult to use in practice.
``Balancing tests  are impossibly difficult and arbitrary,'' said Rep. Thomas Campbell,  R-Calif., who is a former law professor at Stanford University.
``The  practical effect of balancing is to hand defendants like Microsoft  almost certain victory.''
Microsoft argues _ and many antitrust experts  agree _ that the courts have in fact gravitated away from a balancing  test toward a simpler ``predation'' test for exclusionary contracts.
Under this standard, a contract is illegal only if it is intended  to drive out competition and thus to pave the way for a monopolist  to raise prices later.
Microsoft will have an easier time defending  itself against a charge of predation, which amounts to victimizing  its customers, than it would defending itself against a charge that  its bundled product does consumers slightly more harm than good.
The  antitrust record, says William Baxter, who headed the antitrust division  under President Reagan, is littered with ``contradictory, ambiguous  and sometimes nonsensical'' verdicts.
He and other legal experts agree  that if nothing else, that record leaves plenty of legal leeway for  the Supreme Court, should it hear the Microsoft case, to stiffen the  spine of the antitrust law.
The legal tool that the government is using in its assault on Microsoft  is brief, vague and malleable.
The combination has meant that this bedrock statute of antitrust policy  has been at turns toothless and powerful over the years, depending  on the politics and economics of the day as interpreted by the courts.
Sponsored by Sen. John Sherman, an Ohio Republican who was the younger  brother of the Civil War general William Tecumseh Sherman, the act  was passed as a nod to a popular backlash against the rise of the  industrial trusts in oil, steel and railroads.
Farmers, laborers and  small-business owners _ sizable voting groups _ resented the trusts  as vehicles of concentrated power.
But the trusts, large national  holding corporations, were viewed by many others as engines of modernization  and industrialization.
Economists at the time opposed the Sherman  Act, and the law that Congress passed was a vaguely worded compromise.
No one knew what impact it would have, but one senator, quoted in  Matthew Josephson's ``The Robber Barons,'' explained that nearly everyone  agreed that ``something must be flung out to appease the restive masses.''
The act's two key provisions, Sections 1 and 2, mention ``conspiracy,''  ``restraint of trade'' and ``attempt to monopolize.''
Yet while the  Sherman Act is now interpreted as the Magna Carta of competition,  it never uses the term.
After it was passed, critics of the trusts  derided the ``impenetrable'' language of the Sherman Act and called  it the Swiss Cheese Act.
But by the early 1900s, the political climate  had changed.
The growing antagonism for the trusts, especially as  income gaps widened, was tapped by an avowed trustbuster, Theodore  Roosevelt, who became president in 1901.
``The Sherman Act has always  been an elastic piece of social legislation, used to attack perceived  exploitation and the aggregation of power,'' said Eleanor Fox, a professor  at the New York University Law School.
The model trust _ and the principal  target of the trustbusters _ was Standard Oil.
Shrewdly, Roosevelt  made a distinction between good trusts, which thrived because of their  superior efficiency, and bad trusts, which grew not as the result  of inevitable economic forces but because of unfair business practices.
Throughout the 1880s and '90s, Standard Oil's rivals had complained  about the company and the business practices of its founder, John  D. Rockefeller.
But during those years, the price of kerosene _ burned  to light the nation's homes _declined steadily.
So Standard Oil, it  could could reasonably be argued, was an ``enterprising monopoly.''
In the early 1900s, though, Standard Oil raised prices in the United  States to prop up its profits at a time it was engaged in a price  war against Royal Dutch/Shell in Europe, where Standard Oil did face  genuine competition.
When consumers were hurt by the Standard Oil  monopoly, popular support for antitrust action against the company  swelled, encouraged by Roosevelt and his successor, William Howard  Taft.
The federal suit against Standard Oil was filed in 1906, and  the Supreme Court approved the breakup of the company in 1911.
Standard  Oil and the Microsoft case, historians observe, have some common themes.
Both were dominant companies of their day, and Bill Gates, the Microsoft  chairman, has been called a modern Rockefeller.
``But there is no  presidential involvement and there is no real consumer dissatisfaction  in the Microsoft case,'' said Ron Chernow, author of ``Titan,'' a  best-selling biography of Rockefeller.
``And Rockefeller,'' Chernow  added, ``never went through the kind of honeymoon period of widespread  public adulation and favorable press coverage as Bill Gates has had.''
The government's antitrust scrutiny of Microsoft, the world's largest  independent software company, has spanned Republican and Democratic  administrations and involved hundreds of government lawyers and investigators.
But it has by no means been an example of consistent, coordinated  public policy.
Nor, by all accounts, of politics.
Instead, like the  software industry itself, the government's pursuit of Microsoft has  taken leaps, hit dead ends and evolved in ways no one could have controlled  or predicted back when it started in 1989.
It was in November of that  year, on a hot afternoon at a computer-industry convention in Las  Vegas, Nev., that Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, looked like he'd  been dragged to the news conference with a senior executive from IBM  which at the time dominated Microsoft and the entire computer industry.
The two companies _ IBM, then the leading maker of personal computers  and Microsoft, the leader in PC operating system software _ were collaborating  on the design and marketing of a new operating system called OS/2.
But Microsoft was also beginning to sell a competing product, Windows.
The industry trade press was full of worried articles: which system  was going to become the new standard?
With Gates standing uncomfortably  at his side, James Cannavino, an IBM divisional president, said that  the two companies wanted to ``clear the air.''
OS/2 was the future,  he said.
As for Windows, he added, it would remain a niche product  for under-equipped computers.
Windows, he asserted, would never receive  all the advanced features of OS/2.
Gates certainly did not look happy.
But he did not disagree.
The news conference got little attention,  just a few articles deep inside newspapers and trade publications.
But a few weeks later, Norris Washington, a senior antitrust lawyer  with the Federal Trade Commission, happened to read one of those articles,  in Byte magazine.
``IBM and Microsoft have now defined their unified  vision of graphical operating environments,'' the article said, ``and  it looks sort of like a U.S. economic model,'' divided into lower-,  middle- and upper-class products.
As Washington saw it, IBM and Microsoft  were colluding to divide the operating-system market _ a potential  violation of antitrust law.
Soon the FTC staff opened an investigation  of Microsoft and IBM And since that small first step, Microsoft has  been under unrelenting scrutiny from federal antitrust investigators  for a constantly evolving series of allegations and charges, month  after month, year after year, for the last nine years.
Now comes the  antitrust trial scheduled to begin on Monday, with a multiplicity  of charges woven of threads drawn from more than a dozen different  investigative inquiries during that nine-year span.
Microsoft, today  the most feared company in the software business and carrying a stock-market  value of nearly $234 billion, presents a huge and highly visible antitrust  target.
Yet, while the company's allies ask, ``What is the Clinton  administration's political agenda in going after Microsoft?''
the  answer seems to be there is none.
In interviews, more than a dozen  current and former senior antitrust officials _ whether friends of  the government or of Microsoft _ all say the Justice Department's  antitrust suit is a natural outgrowth of the previous investigations.
As for politics, all the officials agreed that the antitrust division  operates independent of the administration's political considerations.
Charles Rule was the assistant attorney general who headed the antitrust  division during the Bush administration, and he is now a Washington  lawyer who serves as an adviser and advocate for Microsoft.
``When  I was there,'' Rule said of his Justice days, ``the White House was  punctilious in terms of never getting involved in whatever we decided  to do.
There was no communication between antitrust and other branches  of government.''
Asked if he believed that policy had changed under  the Clinton administration, he said: ``Not really.
I've seen nothing  to suggest it.''
Joel Klein heads the antitrust division now, and  in an interview dealing with his division's role in the Clinton administration's  technology policy, not specifically relating to the Microsoft case,  he said: ``There is no statutory restriction, but as a practical matter,  civil and criminal prosecutions are invariably carried out without  any political contact.''
Klein said, by way of examples, that he might  discuss merger cases involving military or aviation industries with  the Defense Department or Transportation Department.
``But never the  White House,'' he said.
``For a significant case, we might call the  White House and say `An hour from now we are going to hold a press  conference.' ''
``The last time there was any interference,'' he added,  ``was the Dita Beard-ITT case.''
Mrs. Beard, a lobbyist for ITT Corp.,  was accused in 1972 of having written a memo saying that a $400,000  donation to the Republican National Convention had ``gone a long way''  toward settling antitrust suits brought against the company by the  Nixon administration's Justice Department.
The authenticity of the  memo was never proved, and Mrs. Beard always denied writing it.
In  any case, Klein says, ``since Watergate, it's been immaculate.''
In  the case of Microsoft, neither President Clinton nor Vice President  Al Gore has ever volunteered a comment.
In answer to a question during  a news conference in May, just before the suit was filed, Clinton  said: ``I have taken the view that I should not comment on matters  within the Justice Department.
At this time, I do not think I should  depart from that policy on this case, even though it obviously will  have a big impact on an important sector of our economy.
But I have  to say, based on what I know to date, I have confidence in the way  the antitrust division in the Justice Department has handled the matter.''
Since then, Clinton has said nothing else about the case, publicly  at least.
And Gore, who generally represents the administration on  technology issues, has never commented at all.
In Rule's opinion,  the administration would be foolish to involve itself, even if it  were politically acceptable to do so.
``It would be a little odd for  the administration to push the Justice Department in this suit,''  he said.
``It would be a policy mistake and a political mistake.
I  would be hard pressed to explain why they would do that.''
Taking  sides in the highly charged technology world is dangerous, particularly  since the Democrats rely on Silicon Valley companies for political  donations and support.
In fact, the present and former government  officials all said the suit was simply a natural extension of the  inquiries conducted during the last nine years.
They began at the  FTC.
Soon after Washington read that article in Byte, the FTC staff  opened an investigation of the Windows-OS/2 question.
But as has happened  so often in the following years, turns in the market made the initial  inquiry irrelevant.
Microsoft abandoned its agreement with IBM, and  Windows quickly grew to be the industry standard, while OS/2 remained  a cipher.
But as that issue faded, once government investigators began  looking at Microsoft they found other things that troubled them.
In  1991 Washington, who still works for the FTC, informed Microsoft that  the investigation was being expanded.
The agency, his letter said,  was now trying to determine whether Microsoft was using its dominant  position in operating-systems software to stifle competition in other  areas.
That general idea lies at the heart of the present suit.
One  former senior FTC official said the commission staff had confidence  in the case but realized that the Reagan-era commissioners, who had  to approve any suit, might have a different view.
``We knew the commission  might have difficulty with a monopolization case,'' the former official  said.
``They hadn't brought a case in years.''
And in fact, in 1993  the commission voted 2-2 on the question of whether to file formal  charges.
The deadlock served as a dismissal.
Then, a few months later,  the Justice Department decided to pick up the case.
``It was farther  along than most cases we got,'' recalled Robert Litan, a former senior  official in the Justice Department's antitrust division who is now  at the Brookings Institution.
``Usually a case would be two or three  people complaining and a few documents,'' he said.
``But this was  a fully researched record.
They gave us the files and briefed us on  what they had done.''
The Justice Department lawyers picked up the  same thread.
``The general idea behind our inquiry,'' Litan said,  ``was that they should not be allowed to use their monopoly in operating  systems to cement a monopoly in other areas.''
In 1995, Microsoft  and the government reached a consent agreement in which the company  promised to stop forcing PC makers to buy one copy of a Microsoft  operating system for every computer sold _ instead of one for every  computer on which the operating system, MS-DOS or Windows, was installed.
The company also agreed to stop tying the sale of one software product  to the sale of another.
The charges in the present suit are similar  in many ways.
Even with the agreement, the government investigations  continued.
That same year, Justice Department investigators showed  up at the offices of Netscape Communications Corp. for the first time  to ask questions about their next line of inquiry.
``America Online  had been complaining,'' a senior Netscape executive recalled, ``because  Microsoft was bundling the Microsoft Network,'' a competing online  service, ``with Windows.''
Once more, market forces overtook the investigation.
The Microsoft Network never grew particularly popular while America  Online prospered and grew.
But, not surprisingly, new complaints filled  the void.
In May 1995, Anne Bingaman, the assistant attorney general  who headed the antitrust division, remarked: ``We get complaints about  Microsoft all the time.
We have become a kind of Microsoft complaints  center.
And we take them very seriously.''
In 1996, Netscape's first  complaint arrived.
In a letter to the Justice Department, Netscape  said that Microsoft was using its dominance in personal-computer operating  systems to force or persuade computer makers to favor Microsoft's  browser, used to explore the World Wide Web, over the one marketed  by Netscape.
The next year the Justice Department formally charged  Microsoft with violating the consent agreement by tying sales of Windows  to installation of the company's Web browser on new computers.
``It  seemed like a slam-dunk violation of the consent decree,'' a natural  extension of that case, recalled Litan, who had left the department  by then.
A Federal District Court judge agreed, but an Appeals Court  panel overturned that ruling this summer.
In the meantime, last May  the Justice Department and 20 state attorneys general filed their  new suit against Microsoft, which is scheduled for trial on Monday.
It contends that Microsoft has engaged in bundling, tying and other  predatory behavior similar in many ways to the numerous previous allegations  and investigations of the last nine years.
``A good part of this case  is just Round II of the case we dealt with in Round I,'' in the early  in the 1990s, Litan said.
Or, as the former senior FTC official put  it, ``there's certainly a common thread that runs all the way through  here.''
But through the years that thread has been twisted, pulled  and spun by hundreds of different hands.
Shortly before the government filed its antitrust suit against Microsoft  Corp. in May, Joel Klein, the assistant attorney general in charge  of the Justice Department's antitrust division, met with a Silicon  Valley executive.
The executive recalls telling Klein that unless  a case went beyond the Internet browser market, it would have little  effect on Microsoft's power to stifle competition across the computer  industry.
Klein replied that he understood the computer executive's  concerns.
But he said time was running short and the strongest evidence  in hand involved Microsoft's battle against Netscape Communications  Corp. in the market for the so-called browser software used for navigating  the Internet.
``This is a Netscape case,'' the executive recalls Klein  saying.
But five months later, the case that the government is bringing  to trial on Monday extends well beyond Netscape and the browser war  to embrace what it described in a recent court filing as ``a broad  pattern of anti-competitive conduct'' by Microsoft.
Netscape, the  but  only one of several examples.
The 12-person witness list for the Justice  Department and 20 states suing Microsoft reflects the new evidence  added to the case since May.
James Barksdale, Netscape's president  and chief executive, will appear first, but he will be followed by  executives representing a cross section of the nation's high-technology  companies including Intel, IBM, Sun Microsystems, Apple Computer,  America Online and Intuit.
In bringing a more ambitious, complicated  case to trial than the one it filed in May, the government has chosen  a high-risk strategy.
The law states that new evidence can be added  to a suit after it is filed, but not new charges.
And so, in his federal  courtroom in Washington, U.S.District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson  could decide to rule out some of the new evidence as ranging too far  afield from the original suit.
But if the government wins its broadened  case, the court-ordered remedies would no doubt be far tougher on  Microsoft.
In May, the government's suggested steps amounted to equal  treatment for Netscape's browser and Microsoft's browser.
But the  government recently asked that the judge hold a separate hearing on  remedies, if it wins the case.
The remedies under consideration now  include more basic changes in Microsoft's business practices _ perhaps  even a breakup of the company _ intended to loosen Microsoft's grip  on computing.
That would be precisely the kind of sweeping reform  that Microsoft's foes would applaud.
``The government has doubled  the bet and doubled the stakes,'' said David Yoffie, a professor at  the Harvard business school who is co-author of the book, ``Competing  on Internet Time: Lessons From Netscape and Its Battle With Microsoft.''
Meanwhile, in the Microsoft camp, the government's strategy is dismissed  as a desperate act _ taken after a court ruling in June that threatened  to undermine the antitrust suit.
That ruling came in a separate case,  involving the interpretation of the consent decree that Microsoft  signed with the Justice Department in 1995.
In the June ruling, a  federal appeals court said that Microsoft could bundle its browser  with its industry-standard Windows operating system and call them  one product.
The appeals-court ruling would seem to undercut the assertion  in the government's current antitrust case that the browser and the  operating system were two separate products, bundled together and  given away in an effort to thwart competition in the browser market.
``With the appeals-court ruling in June, the government lost the heart  of its case,'' said Charles Rule, a former senior official in the  Justice Department, who is now a consultant to Microsoft.
``So it  has taken a blunderbuss approach of scrambling to throw everything  it can find _ even evidence the Justice Department has had for years  _ into the gun barrel and see what hits.''
The June appellate ruling  did shake the prosecution team.
But mostly it strengthened the hand  of those within the Justice Department who had been urging that the  case be broadened, according to people who have worked on the investigation.
At the same time, they say, new evidence was coming in as the investigation  moved ahead and prosecutors raced to meet the accelerated trial schedule  approved by the court.
Speed was a priority from the outset, they  say.
The Justice Department and the states filed their suit in May  to move before Microsoft's new operating system, Windows 98, was introduced  in June.
While not seeking to block the release of Windows 98, government  lawyers wanted to get to the the courtroom as early as possible as  PC makers and computer users adopt this latest version of Microsoft's  Windows operating system, which functions as the central nervous system  for more than 90 percent of personal computers sold.
The key allegations,  government lawyers note, have not changed since May _ namely, that  Microsoft illegally used its market power in operating systems to  defend its monopoly position and to try to extend into new markets.
``But the only thing that was wrapped up in a bow in time for the  May filing was the browser,'' said one person who worked on the case.
``The real game plan was always to get a broader case.''
What is more,  one person noted, the prosecution team was not at full strength until  shortly before the suit was filed.
David Boies, a renowned courtroom  litigator and a former partner at Cravath, Swaine &AMP; Moore who  successfully defended IBM in its 13-year confrontation with the government,  was named as special counsel for the Justice Department last December.
But Boies, who left Cravath last year, did not start working full-time  for the Justice Department until mid-April, because he was still finishing  private cases for his own firm, Boies &AMP; Schiller.
The antitrust  suit filed in May leaned heavily on the Netscape story, mentioning  Microsoft's main rival in the browser market some 130 times in the  complaint and a supporting memorandum.
But it also prominently mentioned  Microsoft's tactics against Sun Microsystems, creator of Java, an  Internet programming language, and cited it as an ``example'' of Microsoft's  behavior.
``It was crafted as a template that could be added to without  much stretching,'' one person involved in the case said.
And so, as  new evidence piled up and seemed to fit into a pattern, Klein step  by step approved the widening of the case, the person said.
And that  explains, the person continued, how it is that evidence that has been  in the hands of the Justice Department for years has been added to  the case since May; only after gathering new evidence did it become  apparent that the older material fit the pattern of the current case.
For example, the government has added the contention that Microsoft  pressured Intel Corp., the big microchip maker and a close partner  of Microsoft, to curb its development efforts in multimedia and Internet  software because they might conflict with Microsoft's plans.
The government  contends that the arm-twisting occurred at meetings between the two  companies three years ago, especially one on Aug. 2, 1995, which was  attended by Andrew Grove, the Intel chairman, and Bill Gates, the  Microsoft chairman.
Part of the government's evidence in the Intel-Microsoft  episode is copies of the handwritten notes taken by Steven McGeady,  an Intel vice president who attended the meetings, and a memo written  by him on Aug. 28, 1995.
The memo, still under court seal, said that  Gates ``made vague threats'' and was ``livid'' about Intel's investments  in the Internet ``and wanted them stopped.''
A handwritten note, also  under court seal, quotes Paul Maritz, a Microsoft executive, as saying  that Netscape is their ``common enemy'' and that Intel's role should  be to ``fill in stuff in and around Microsoft's strategy.''
These  documents were sent by Intel to the Justice Department's office in  San Francisco in November 1995, in response to a Civil Investigative  Demand _ a civil subpoena _ served on Intel on Nov. 10, 1995.
On its  own, the Intel material was intriguing, but it became part of the  antitrust suit only as other evidence surfaced, one person close to  the case said.
The government is contending that Microsoft also tried  to urge Apple to stop selling its Quicktime multimedia software in  the Windows market and tried to convince Real Networks Inc. to pull  back in the market for so-called streaming software.
The government  case has also broadened, people involved in the case say, as more  witnesses from the industry have been increasingly willing to testify.
``In the beginning, most people in the industry believed that the  government would lose and Microsoft would retaliate if they came forward,''  one person said.
``But as the strength of our case was perceived to  improve, more people were willing to come forward, and things snowballed.
You get Intel, it's easier to get Apple and so on.''
Following is the text of the first two sections of the Sherman Act,  as passed by Congress in 1890.
As the foundation on which federal  antitrust law has been built, the act has been amended several times  elevating the crime to a felony, increasing the fines and prison  terms for individuals and setting fines for corporations convicted  of violating it.
In the case of Microsoft, the government has invoked  the Sherman Act to file a civil suit that seeks to change the company's  business practices, not a criminal suit that seeks financial penalties.
An Act to Protect Trade And Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and  Monopolies: Section 1.
Every contract, combination in the form of  trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce  among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared  to be illegal.
Every person who shall make any such contract or engage  in any such combination or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a  misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine  not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding  one year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court.
Section 2.
Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize,  or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize  any part of the trade of commerce among the several States, or with  foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on  conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand  dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said  punishments, in the discretion of the court.
Will it matter to consumers that Bill Gates isn't a nice guy?
Until  last week, most Americans thought of Gates, the chairman of the Microsoft  but also a self-styled  visionary who almost single-handedly unlocked the power of the personal  computer.
Monday, however, in a Washington courtroom, the Justice  Department began painting a different, darker portrait of Gates.
In  an antitrust suit brought by the department and 20 states, the man  whose company commands a 97 percent share of the market for personal  computer operating systems is being depicted as a Nixonian schemer  who will go to almost any length to crush his competition.
Product  innovation, the suit argues, is not a sufficient weapon for Gates.
Flashing back and forth between snippets of Gates' videotaped deposition  and e-mail messages he had sent that contradicted his testimony, the  government sought to establish a pattern of threats and offers of  payments by the Microsoft chairman.
It also sought to cast Gates as  an obsessed man who feared the tiny Netscape Communications Corp.
and its potential threat to his domination of the market for Internet  browsers, the software used to navigate the World Wide Web.
Gates  was portrayed by Justice Department litigator David Boies as a schoolyard  bully who rides roughshod over the computer industry with a crudeness  that is in stark contrast to his popular image as a benevolent dictator  and high-technology guru.
According to a document presented by Boies,  for example, Gates asked America Online executives in 1996: ``How  much do we need to pay you'' to damage Netscape?
``This is your lucky  day.''
The implication, Boies said, was that the amount was irrelevant,  and that Microsoft, with its deep pockets and market dominance, makes  as many ``offers you can't refuse'' as needed to achieve its goals.
Microsoft officials are closely watching market surveys for any hint  that the new image of a bare-knuckled Gates might be detracting from  the company's world-famous brand name, but they insist that the public  will continue to draw a distinction between allegations of anticompetitive  business tactics and the company's software.
``Despite what you're  reading in the press, people judge us by our products,'' said Mich  Matthews, head of Microsoft's corporate public-relations office.
``Our  experience is that people vote with their pocketbooks.''
So far, consumers  are casting positive votes.
Last week Microsoft reported quarterly  profits of $1.52 billion, a stunning 58 percent increase over the  level a year earlier.
Despite the record profits, some marketing experts  say that if the public comes to view Gates as a Rockefeller-style  robber baron, his company and its brand name may suffer.
``When you  have a company with such a visible chief executive, the CEO is really  the driver of the brand,'' said David Aaker, a brand marketing expert  at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at  Berkeley.
``There is no question this is going to affect Microsoft's  brand recognition.''
Already there are early warning signals, as political  cartoons in newspapers across the country bashed Gates last week.
One showed him holding a globe and saying, ``If you don't play my  way, I'll take my ball and go home''; another portrayed the Microsoft  chairman standing next to a henchman dangling someone from a window  while a Microsoft secretary says to a caller, ``I'm sorry, but Mr.  Gates is busy teaching a competitor about Windows.''
But some industry  analysts believe the new view of a Bill Gates who knows how to play  hardball may not be such a bad thing for his company.
The he-said,  she-said round of e-mail messages being dragged out in court cases  both in Washington and in Silicon Valley, where Microsoft is locked  in a legal battle with its archrival, Sun Microsystems Inc., is viewed  by some as little different from the exaggerated trash talking that  goes on in professional sports.
``It's like taking what Charles Barkley  and Michael Jordan say to each other on the ball court'' and turning  it into something more sinister than it really is, said Paul Andrews,  co-author with Stephen Manes of ``Gates'' (Doubleday, 1993).
Indeed,  there is evidence that the darker view of Gates and his company has  so far taken root only in the District of Columbia and in Silicon  Valley, where the computer industry has long felt the impact of Gates'  tactics, and where bitterness and distrust of Microsoft are deep.
In the rest of the country, Gates continues to enjoy great popularity.
Two weeks ago, while speaking before a crowd of almost 7,000 students  at Indiana University, a questioner who asked about the Justice Department's  suit was roundly booed.
BILL GATES, WHIPPING BOY c.1998 N.Y. Times  News Service Is Bill Gates a high-tech Machiavelli, Public Enemy No.
1 or a threat to the known universe?
All three, judging from the numerous  political cartoons that popped up in newspapers across the country  last week.
From Chattanooga to Boston, cartoonists took delight in  demonizing Gates, who is facing an unexpected public relations challenge  as Microsoft's antitrust trial unfolds in Washington.
Other cartoons  ran the gamut from the predictable (a worker, pointing to an aquarium  in which a large fish is gobbling up smaller ones, saying to some  visitors, ``Welcome to Microsoft's research and development department'')  to the weird (a dweebish man hunched in front of a computer screen  staring at the words: ``Our beloved leader, Mr. Gates, is under attack.
Leave your possessions.
Go to the desert.
Await the spaceship'').
And that was just Week One of the trial.
Stay tuned.
Terrorists bombed the US embassy in Nairobi, killing 213, 12 of them Americans.
A near simultaneous bombing of the embassy in Dar es Salaam killed 11, but no Americans.
An editorial accused the State Department of ignoring threat warnings.
Three suspects in custody in New York have been denied outside contact and their lawyers charge that the jail conditions are inhumane.
A federal grand jury has indicted Osama bin Laden with conspiracy in the bombings.
Bin Laden is in Afghanistan, out of the reach of US authorities and protected by the Taliban.
German police receive d possible threat against the US embassy there.
Local and U.S. authorities who are questioning victims for evidence are investigating terrorist bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Three suspects are in custody in New York.
They have filed complaints about restrictions and about unsatisfactory conditions in the jail.
There is evidence that the State Department ignored warnings.
Osama bin Laden was indicted for terrorism and for conspiring in the bombings.
The Taliban has declared him a free man in Afghanistan and says the U.S. is using him as an excuse for missile attacks.
An Islamic group threatens retaliation if he is arrested.
A threat against the U.S. embassy in Bonn seems unfounded.
In Oct and Nov 1998, the US was pursuing Osama bin Laden and his associates as suspects in the Aug bombing of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
The attacks killed 224 and injured 5,485.
The US had ignored a warning of the Kenya attack 9 months earlier.
Two men were arrested in Tanzania.
One was under arrest in Germany.
Two were in a New York City jail, virtually held incommunicado, awaiting trial.
Bin Laden and his military commander also were indicted.
Two $5 million rewards were offered.
Bin Laden was believed to be in Afghanistan where the Taliban government called him an honored guest and said the US presented no proof that he was a terrorist.
Seven men have been arrested for the Aug. 7 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Two, Rashid Saleh Hemed and Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed, are in jail in Tanzania.
Mohammed Saddiq Odeh and Mohamed Rashed Daoud al' Owhali are being held in isolation in a facility in New York.
Three other suspects are being sought.
Osama bin Laden was indicted on 238 counts in connection with the blasts that killed over 200 people and wounded over 5400.
The U.S. announced a $5 million reward each for information leading to the capture or conviction of bin Laden, who is living in Afghanistan under Taliban protection, and Muhammed Atef, a chief lieutenant.
Police and soldiers on Friday blocked off the street in front of a  house where members of a terrorist gang are believed to have assembled  the bomb that blew up the U.S. Embassy, killing 11 people.
Wearing  gloves and masks, detectives from the Tanzanian Criminal Investigation  Division could be seen searching the yard of the house that is surrounded  by a high fence.
Residents, who were questioned Thursday by Tanzanian  police and FBI agents, told reporters Friday there were four regular  visitors to the house.
They all came at night and used a white 1989  Suzuki Samuri, which is in police custody.
Two men, Tanzanian Rashid  Saleh Hemed and Egyptian Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed, have been formally  charged by a Tanzanian magistrate in the Aug. 7 embassy bombing.
Police  are looking for two other suspects identified Ahmad Khalfan, a Tanzanian  of Omani origin and Fahad, a Kenyan of Yemeni origin.
A relative of  Hemed told The Associated Press the house in the Bungoni neighborhood  of Ilala district had been rented by Ahmad Khalfan.
The house is south  of the center of Dar es Salaam and about 6.5 kilometers (4 miles)  southwest of the embassy building.
The relative, who spoke on condition  of anonymity, said in addition to Khalfan, the three other visitors  to the house were Fahad, Ahmed and Hussein.
He did not furnish second  names for them, and it was not clear whether Ahmed was the same Egyptian  charged in the Dar es Salaam bombing.
Residents said police showed  them photographs, but they were not able to identify them because  it was always dark when they arrived and left.
But all were able to  identify the Suzuki vehicle.
Officials believe a 1987 Nissan Atlas  refrigerator truck actually carried the bomb into the embassy compound.
It has been identified by its chassis, all that remains.
There has  been speculation that two men in the Suzuiki used a remote control  device to detonate the bomb.
A nearly simultaneous attack in neighboring  Kenya killed 213 people, including 12 Americans, at the U.S. Embassy  in Nairobi.
U.S. authorities have charged four people in connection  with the Nairobi blast.
Three are in custody in New York, and a fourth  is a fugitive.
Mohamed Sadeek Odeh, one of the three men in custody  in the United States for the Nairobi bombing, told police in Pakistan  where he was arrested after arriving from Nairobi Aug. 7 that Ahmad  Khalfan was a member of the group responsible for the bombing in Dar  es Salaam.
According to the same Pakistani police sources, Odeh identified  Fahad as being involved in the Nairobi embassy bombing.
German police raided several locations near Bonn after receiving word  of a terrorist threat against the U.S. Embassy, but no evidence of  a planned attack was found, officials said Wednesday.
Police, including  agents of an elite anti-terrorist unit, checked several suspects during  raids in an industrial zone and other sites Tuesday, but no arrests  were made, said Eva Schuebel, spokeswoman for the Federal Prosecutor's  Office in Karlsruhe.
The agency said it had received ``credible information''  that Middle East terrorists had stockpiled arms and explosives at  the sites, but none were found.
The agency's investigation is continuing,  Schuebel said.
``For now, we can no longer speak of an immediate threat  to the U.S. Embassy,'' she said.
The embassy had no comment.
Security  was tightened at U.S. installations worldwide after the Aug. 7 bombings  of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Saudi dissident Osama  Bin Laden is wanted by U.S. officials for those attacks.
A suspected  top aide of bin Laden, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, is jailed in Germany  pending a U.S. extradition request, raising concern about reprisals  on German soil.
U.S. authorities charge Salim helped finance, train  and arm members of a terrorist organization, including the alleged  bombers of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
In September,  German police stepped up security at the U.S. consulate in Hamburg  after receiving a tip about a possible threat.
An Islamic militant group on Thursday threatened to retaliate if Saudi  dissident Osama bin Laden is arrested, and described Washington's  No. 1 enemy as a ``hero'' to Muslims worldwide.
Bin Laden, believed  to be in Afghanistan, and a top aide were indicted Wednesday by a  U.S. District Court in the U.S. embassy bombings in Africa and are  accused of conspiring to kill Americans outside the United States.
The State Department also announced a reward of up to dlrs 5 million  for bin Laden's capture.
``It is a challenge to the entire Muslim  world ... Bin Laden is a hero of the Muslim world,'' said Omar Warsi,  a leader of Pakistan's militant Sunni Muslim group, Sipah-e-Sahaba,  or Guardians of the Friends of the Prophet.
``If anything happens  to him, America will be responsible.''
Many Sipah-e-Sahaba followers  are fighting in neighboring Afghanistan alongside the Taliban army,  which rules 90 percent of Afghanistan and has imposed a strict version  of Islamic law in those areas.
Warsi's group is well-armed with everything  from machine guns to rocket launchers.
In Pakistan, it has been blamed  in killings of hundreds of Shiite Muslims, whom the group reviles  as non-Muslims based on a centuries-old dispute over who was the proper  successor to the Prophet Mohammed.
Harakat-ul-Ansar, a Pakistan-based  organization labeled a terrorist group by the United States, said,  however, that foreigners in Pakistan ``have nothing to fear from us.''
Harakat is considered a strong supporter of bin Laden, and several  Harakat followers were killed in the U.S. missile attack on alleged  bin Laden terror sites in Afghanistan.
``What the United States does  is their business,'' said Abdul Bassit, a Harakat follower.
He added,  however, that the United States should know bin Laden ``is a good  Muslim, and all the Muslim world thinks he is a good Muslim.''
The  Taliban say bin Laden is a respected guest who will not be extradited.
However, they have set up a judicial inquiry to accept evidence of  bin Laden's involvement in terrorist activity and have promised to  prosecute him if the evidence warrants it.
Washington blames bin Laden's  group, al Qaeda, for the Aug. 7 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya  and Tanzania that killed 224 people, including 12 Americans, and injured  an estimated 5,000 people.
The United States retaliated Aug. 20, firing  Tomahawk cruise missiles at suspected bin Laden training camps in  eastern Afghanistan.
At least 26 people were killed, but damage to  the area was not considered extensive.
The U.S. Embassy in Pakistan  evacuated nonessential staff and family members prior to the August  bombing of Afghanistan, fearing retaliation.
While some embassy workers  are back, their dependents and about 30 percent of the staff have  not been allowed to return.
Embassy officials said no fresh security  warnings followed Wednesday's indictment.
Security measures already  in place include cement barricades blocking the road leading to the  U.S. Embassy in Islamabad and razor-sharp barbed wire topping the  brick-walled compound.
In the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar,  on the border with Afghanistan, the U.S. consulate is surrounded by  barbed wire and protected by an armored personnel carrier and dozens  of armed police.
The Taliban's chief justice accused the United States on Wednesday  of looking for an ``excuse'' to launch another missile attack on his  war-shattered homeland.
And that excuse is Osama bin Laden, the man  Washington calls Enemy No. 1 and blames for the Aug. 7 bombings of  U.S. embassies in East Africa, Justice Noor Mohammed Saqib said an  interview with The Associated Press.
On Aug. 20 the United States  retaliated by firing Tomahawk missiles at suspected terrorist camps  in eastern Afghanistan, killing 26 people.
According to U.S. intelligence  sources, the camps were being used to train members of bin Laden's  al Qaeda terrorist group.
``America is looking for an excuse to fire  more rockets on our dear Afghanistan and that excuse is bin Laden,''  Saqib said.
Washington, which has posted a dlrs 5 million reward for  bin Laden's arrest, hasn't ruled out further attacks on Afghanistan.
Saqib, who heads a judicial inquiry established by the Taliban to  investigate the terrorism charges against bin Laden, says the United  States has become insecure.
``America fears its shadow ... in every  part of the world it is afraid and sees every danger connected to  bin Laden,'' he said in an interview in the Afghan capital of Kabul.
In Afghanistan, bin Laden is considered an honored guest by his Taliban  hosts.
They cite Afghan tradition, which demands the host guarantee  his guest protection.
So far Saqib says he has no evidence of bin  Laden's involvement in terrorist activities.
The Taliban have refused  to turn over bin Laden to the United States, but they say if there  is evidence they will try him under Islamic law.
In the 90 percent  of Afghanistan ruled by the Taliban a harsh brand of Islamic justice  has been imposed, including the death penalty.
``We want good relations  with the United States and all Muslim and non-Muslim countries, but  they have to respect our ways,'' he said.
Saqib said his inquiry will  wind up on Nov. 20 and if there is no evidence against bin Laden the  at least for the Taliban.
``Bin Laden is not  a sinful man ... America has been silent ... they have given no evidence,''  he said.
``It is too shameful for America who is now seen by all that  world to have no reason to go after bin Laden.''
FBI agents this week began questioning relatives  of the victims of the Aug. 7 U.S. Embassy bombing as well as the seriously  injured on request of the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern  District of New York, a U.S. official said Thursday.
The blast at  the embassy building in downtown Nairobi killed 213 people, 12 of  them Americans, and injured 5,400.
In an nearly simultaneous bombing  of the U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam in neighboring Tanzania, 11 people  were killed and 85 were injured, none of them Americans.
The official,  who could not be further identified, said the questioning was aimed  at gathering recorded testimony to be used by the prosecution in the  pre-sentencing phase of the trials of the six men indicted in connection  with the attack.
Wadih El Hage, Mohamed Sadeek Odeh and Mohamed Rashed  Daoud Al-'Owhali are being held by the U.S. District Court in the  Southern District of New York.
All three have pleaded innocent.
Fazul  Abdullah Mohammed is a fugitive.
Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, the  alleged mastermind of a conspiracy to attack U.S. targets around the  world, and Muhammad Atef, the alleged military commander of bin Laden's  terrorist organization, Al-Qaeda, were charged in a separate 238-page  indictment with murder and conspiracy in the bombings.
Bin Laden is  believed to be living in Afghanistan.
U.S. law provides for the trial  in the United States of those charged in terror attacks against American  citizens, even if carried out on foreign soil.
The man accused of orchestrating the U.S. embassy bombings in Tanzania  and Kenya was declared a free man Friday in Afghanistan, where he  has lived for years with the permission of the hard-line Islamic Taliban  militia.
The Taliban, who control about 90 percent of Afghanistan,  on Friday closed their three-week inquiry into allegations that Osama  bin Laden is waging a war of terror against the United States.
``It's  over, and America has not presented any evidence,'' Afghanistan's  chief justice, Noor Mohammed Saqib, told The Associated Press in an  interview at the Supreme Court building in the Afghan capital, Kabul.
``Without any evidence, bin Laden is a man without sin.
... He is  a free man.''
The Taliban have told bin Laden, however, that political  activity is banned and he has agreed to respect that, the Taliban  information minister said in a statement Friday.
The minister, Amir  Khan Muttaqi, also disputed U.S. assertions that bin Laden is a rich  man, saying the Saudi dissident has had his foreign assets frozen,  a claim not immediately corroborated.
The New York Times said in an editorial on Monday, Oct. 26: Since  the deadly bombing of two American embassies in Africa in August,  there has been a troubling accumulation of evidence that the State  Department inexplicably ignored warnings of possible terrorist attacks  against the installations.
The latest and most disturbing account  suggests that nine months before the truck bombing in Kenya, the department  received a detailed description of the planned attack but did little  to strengthen security at the embassy.
The pattern of negligence demands  examination by the Clinton administration and Congress.
Shortly after  the bombing, the department acknowledged that the American ambassador  in Kenya, Prudence Bushnell, had earlier recommended that the embassy  be moved to a safer location.
Her advice was rejected.
On Friday,  Raymond Bonner and James Risen of The New York Times reported that  an Egyptian now believed to have been directly involved in the bombings  outlined the Kenya plot to American intelligence officials last November.
he said terrorists  were planning to detonate a truck bomb in the embassy's underground  garage _ that it called for more than a temporary increase in security.
Unhappily, it was discounted, even thought to be a ruse to lure the  embassy into new security measures that terrorists could monitor and  defeat.
The logic of this is hard to fathom, and harder still to explain  to relatives of the Americans and Kenyans killed in an attack nearly  identical to the plan Ahmed described.
Since the bombings, the department  has been quick to close embassies temporarily if attacks seem imminent.
It would be interesting to know if the intelligence behind those decisions  was any more credible than Ahmed's warning.
No one at the State Department  is happy with the department's handling of security matters, but the  tendency to blame limited funding and bureaucratic inertia is disheartening.
Of course, additional money would have made it possible to harden  defenses at more embassies, and Congress has now added to the security  budget.
But more decisive leadership in the department could have  assured preventive steps were taken in East Africa.
Federal prison officials have cut off virtually all communications  for two men being held in Manhattan in the bombings of the U.S. embassies  in Kenya and Tanzania.
A federal prison official said Monday that  the government moved under a rarely used federal rule that allows  prison officials to limit an inmate's contacts to prevent future ``acts  of violence and terrorism.''
A spokesman for the federal prosecutor's  office declined to say whether the authorities foresaw further threats  of terrorism.
But the law allows officials to impose restrictions  where they believe there is ``a substantial risk'' that an inmate's  communications ``could result in death or serious bodily injury.''
Under the provision, approved by the Justice Department, prison officials  may segregate prisoners from other inmates, and cut off their correspondence,  visits, interviews with the news media and use of the telephone.
It  was not clear yesterday which of these restrictions would be applied  to the two bombing suspects, Mohamed Saddiq Odeh and Mohamed Rashed  Daoud al-'Owhali.
The rule does permit communications with their lawyers.
A Bureau of Prisons official in Washington confirmed that the two  men are joining a group of about six inmates throughout the country  being held under the restrictions.
The total population of federal  prisons exceeds 108,000 inmates.
Others similarly restricted include  Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian cleric convicted in the conspiracy  to blow up landmarks in New York, and Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, convicted  of masterminding the World Trade Center bombings in 1993.
Michael  A. Young, the lawyer representing Odeh, said he was ``somewhat concerned  because these are pretrial defendants, after all.''
``You can't punish  them in advance of any determination of whether they are guilty or  innocent,'' he said.
Leonard F. Joy, al-'Owhali's lawyer, said his  initial impression is that some of the restrictions could hinder his  ability to represent his client.
A federal grand jury in Manhattan returned a 238-count indictment  Wednesday charging the Saudi exile Osama bin Laden with conspiring  to bomb two U.S. embassies in Africa in August and with committing  acts of terrorism against Americans abroad.
Government officials immediately  announced that they were offering two rewards of $5 million each for  information leading to the arrest or conviction of bin Laden and another  man charged Wednesday, Muhammad Atef, who was described as bin Laden's  chief military commander.
Bin Laden is believed to be living in Afghanistan  under the protection of the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalist movement  that rules that country.
Atef's whereabouts are unknown.
Prosecutors  also unsealed an earlier indictment, issued in June, that included  similar but less detailed charges against bin Laden.
That indictment  was returned before the embassy bombings and was the result of a two-year  investigation into his activities in Somalia and Saudi Arabia, as  well as reports that he had connections to a circle of Islamic militants  in Brooklyn.
The new indictment, which supersedes the June action,  accused bin Laden of leading a vast terrorist conspiracy from 1989  to the present, in which he was said to be working in concert with  governments, including those of Sudan, Iraq and Iran, and terrorist  groups, to build weapons and attack American military installations.
But the indictment gives few details of bin Laden's alleged involvement  in the embassy attacks.
The indictment does not, for example, specify  whether prosecutors have evidence that bin Laden gave direct orders  to those who carried out the attacks.
Nothing in the document indicates  why the original indictment was kept secret for months, but the secret  charges were returned about the time that American officials were  plotting a possible raid into Afghanistan to arrest bin Laden.
Mary  Jo White, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said, ``It's very common  to have sealed indictments when you're trying to apprehend those who  are indicted.''
Both indictments offer new information about bin Laden's  operations, including one deal he is said to have struck with Iraq  to cooperate in the development of weapons in return for bin Laden's  agreeing not to work against that country.
No details were given about  whether the alleged deal with Iraq led to the development of actual  weapons for bin Laden's group, which is called Al Qaeda.
The government  said Wednesday that bin Laden's group had used private relief groups  ``as conduits for transmitting funds'' for Al Qaeda.
The groups were  not identified.
Prosecutors also said bin Laden's group had conducted  internal investigations of its members and their associates, trying  to detect who might be acting as informants, and had killed those  who had been suspected of collaborating with ``enemies of the organization.''
The government indicated earlier that its knowledge of bin Laden's  activities stemmed in part from the cooperation of one such informant,  who it said Wednesday had worked for bin Laden, transporting weapons  and explosives, helping to buy land for his training camps and assisting  in running his finances.
While the June indictment against bin Laden  suggested that the government had a great deal of knowledge of his  dealings in the months before the embassy attacks, the new charges  are an indication of how quickly the government has worked to solve  the embassy attacks, which occurred just three months ago.
Ms. White  said bin Laden was charged with ``plotting and carrying out the most  heinous acts of international terrorism and murder.''
Citing the more  than 250 people killed in the embassy attacks and the more than 1,000  wounded, she added, ``In a greater sense, all of the citizens of the  world are also victims whenever and wherever the cruel and cowardly  acts of international terrorism strike.''
The investigation of bin  Laden is continuing, said Ms. White and Lewis D. Schiliro, assistant  director of the FBI in New York, whose agents have fanned out around  the world to look into the embassy attacks.
``Our investigative strategy  is clear,'' Schiliro said.
``We will identify, locate and prosecute  all those responsible, right up the line, from those who constructed  and delivered the bombs to those who paid for them and ordered it  done.''
A federal district judge agreed Tuesday to review complaints by lawyers  for three men arrested after the bombings of two U.S. embassies in  Africa that their jail conditions in Manhattan are unconstitutional  and inhumane.
Judge Leonard Sand of U.S. District Court in Manhattan  said he had received an eight-page letter from lawyers for two of  three defendants in custody in Manhattan.
The lawyers complained that  their clients were being held in total isolation for almost 24 hours  a day in a unit called 10 South, the most restrictive holding area  in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in lower Manhattan.
The defendants  are allowed only brief periods of exercise in a barren room, called  the rat cage, a defense lawyer, Michael Young, wrote in the letter.
A second lawyer, Leonard Joy, concurred with the views in the letter,  which was made public Tuesday.
In agreeing to review the conditions,  Sand said, ``Certainly it has to be addressed, that is, the condition  of confinement for all of the defendants.''
The judge made his comments  in the first hearing in the bombing case since last week's indictment  by a federal grand jury of Osama bin Laden, who the authorities believe  was the mastermind of the embassy attacks.
Bin Laden remains at large  and is believed to be living in Afghanistan under the protection of  the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalist movement that rules that country.
In discussing conditions at the Manhattan jail, the lawyers said that  two of the defendants have not been able to call their families, while  the third has been allowed to make only one phone call.
The lawyers  added that the defendants cannot have visitors, write letters, or  receive mail or books.
The skirmishing continued in court.
``I cannot  give my client a dictionary,'' a third lawyer, Bruce McIntyre, who  represents Wadih el Hage, told the judge.
El Hage has been charged  with conspiring to kill Americans abroad and has been described by  the government as a former personal secretary to bin Laden.
The two  Mohammed Saddiq Odeh and Mohamed  Rashed Daoud al-'Owhali _ have each been charged with separate counts  of murder in the deaths of more than 200 people in the embassy attacks  in Kenya and Tanzania on August 7.
All three men have pleaded not  guilty.
Patrick Fitzgerald, an assistant U.S. attorney, told the judge  that the government would have a response by Friday, and his comments  suggested that the government will be prepared to make some modifications  in the restrictions.
Power in Lebanon is shared equally by a Maronite Christian president, a Sunni Muslim prime minister, and a Shiite Parliament speaker, an arrangement made to prevent a recurrence of the 1975-90 civil war.
Syria, with 30,000 troops in Lebanon is the main power broker there.
The Lebanese parliament amended the constitution to permit popular army general Emile Lahoud to become president.
Prime minister Rafik Hariri, the architect of Lebanon's postwar reconstruction, expected to get a fourth term but a conflict with the new president led him to bow out as premier.
Lebanon's economic stability has been threatened by the conflict.
Army Commander and Maronite Catholic Emile Lahoud was named Lebanon's president for the next 6 years, chosen by outgoing President Hrawi and Syria's Hafez Assad.
Traditionally the president is a Maronite, the PM a Sunni, and Speaker of Parliament a Shiite.
Election by Parliament is a formality.
The constitution was amended to permit senior public servants to be president.
Lahoud rebuilt the army and ended militia reign.
Walid Jumblatt opposed a military president, fearing a return of surveillance on civilians.
PM Rafik Hariri, a businessman who rebuilt the country and economy, refused his delayed re-appointment by Lahoud, who vowed to fight corruption.
Lebanon's leadership changed in Nov 1998.
Army commander Emile Lahoud was elected to a 6-year term as President by the Parliament and took office on Nov 24.
He had the backing of Syrian President Assad, the powerbroker in Lebanon, and a special constitutional amendment in Oct cleared his way.
He did not immediately ask Prime Minister Rafik Hariri to form a new government.
Hariri, the nation's top businessman, had served three terms and rebuilt the nation, but some accused him of corruption.
His support in the Parliament had also slipped, but many believed Lahoud was trying to assert his authority.
When finally asked to form a government, Hariri refused.
Lebanon's Parliament voted the country's top military man, Gen. Emile Lahoud, president.
Lahoud, who promises to clean up a graft-riddled government, is popular and is backed by powerful Syria.
It is unclear, though, whether Prime Minister Hariri, in office since 1992 and credited with the country's economic recovery, will continue to head the cabinet.
31 of 128 legislators chose not to support him, leaving it to the president to name the next prime minister.
Consequently, Hariri withdrew his candidacy, claiming the president acted unconstitutionally when he accepted the mandate to name a prime minister.
Hariri's administration was plagued by nepotism.
The commander of Lebanon's army will become the country's next president  after winning the crucial backing of Syria, the powerbroker in Lebanon.
``Congratulations, your excellency the general,'' Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafik Hariri told army commander Emile Lahoud in a telephone conversation  Monday that was headlined on the front-page of the leftist newspaper  As-Safir.
Lebanese media said the matter was settled Monday at a meeting  in Damascus between outgoing President Elias Hrawi and Syrian President  Hafez Assad, whose country dominates its weaker, smaller neighbor.
Agriculture Minister Shawki Fakhoury, a Hrawi confidant, said Tuesday  that Lahoud is expected to be elected by the 128-member Parliament  at an extraordinary session on Oct. 15.
The election is a formality  since other candidates have little chance now that Syria has thrown  its weight behind Gen. Lahoud.
In another formality before the election,  the Parliament will amend the constitution, which forbids senior public  servants from running for president.
The new president must be sworn  in on Nov. 24, the day Hrawi leaves office at the end of his six-year  term.
The choice of Lahoud, a Maronite Catholic, will continue a 55-year-old  tradition under which the president is a Maronite, the prime minister  a Sunni Muslim and the Parliament speaker a Shiite Muslim.
Agreement  among the three officials is essential for the smooth running of the  government.
Since Lahoud has a good relationship with Hariri and Speaker  Nabih Berri, little change was expected in government policy.
Lahoud's  nomination ends weeks of suspense over the identity of the next head  of state.
Lahoud, a 62-year-old naval officer trained in Britain and  the United States, enjoys wide public and political support at home  and has good relations with Syria.
But the choice could not have been  sealed before a final say from Assad, who keeps 30,000 troops in this  country.
His word is referred to in the Beirut media as ``the password.''
Lahoud, elevated from rear admiral to general and appointed army commander  in 1988 amid a rebellion in the fractured military during the 1975-90  civil war, is credited with rebuilding the 55,000-strong Lebanese  army and in ending the reign of militias.
In Lebanon, the army commander  heads the air force, navy and the ground forces.
Many hope he will  copy his success with the military in government, which is plagued  by nepotism and waste of public funds.
But some fear that a military  man in the nation's highest office could mean a return to the use  the case under Fouad  Chehab, the only other army commander to become president, who ruled  from 1958 to 1964.
``The election of a military man is a threat to  democracy in Lebanon,'' Raymond Edde, a Christian politician living  in self-imposed exile in France, told the An-Nahar newspaper.
A Cabinet minister and a close Syria ally on Wednesday criticized  the Syrian-backed choice of the army commander as president, and said  he will boycott a vote to elect the military man for the executive  post.
Walid Jumblatt, the minister for displaced persons, said he  and his party's three legislators will not vote when the 128-member  Parliament elects the president, likely sometime before Oct. 23.
Although  a boycott by Jumblatt's Progressive Socialist Party will hardly spoil  the chances of Gen. Emile Lahoud, it could embolden others to express  discontent at the choice and the process of his election.
Lahoud is  virtually assured of the job: the prime minister and the parliament  speaker first approved Lahoud, who then won the all-important backing  of Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon.
``Historically, we do  not approve that a military man takes control of the country,'' Jumblatt  told reporters after a meeting with outgoing President Elias Hrawi.
Although opposition to Syria's hold on Lebanon's politics is common  among anti-Syrian politicians, it is rare for somebody like Jumblatt  to openly speak against a decision personally cleared by Syrian President  Hafez Assad who keeps 30,000 troops in Lebanon.
Like Jumblatt, some  in Lebanon fear that a military man as president could mean intelligence  agents will track civilian life just as they did between 1958 and  1964 during the presidency of Fouad Chehab, the only other army commander  to become head of state.
In nominating Lahoud, ``rules were not respected,''  Jumblatt said.
``Things were supposed to run in a more democratic  way,'' said Jumblatt, whose Druse militia fought Christian forces  during the 1975-90 civil war.
The new president must be sworn in on  Nov. 24, the day Hrawi leaves office after a six-year term.
Jumblatt  said ``there is adequate political diversity and competition in the  country,'' implying that choosing a military man for president was  unnecessary.
Deputy Prime Minister Michel Murr sought to calm fears  about military intrusion.
He told reporters that Lahoud will ``keep  the army out of politics just as he kept politics out of the army.''
Lahoud, a 62-year-old naval officer, enjoys wide public and political  support at home and has good relations with Syria.
He gained public  admiration for reuniting an army fractured by civil war and in ending  the reign of militias.
Many hope he will cleanse the government of  nepotism and wastage of public funds.
Lahoud's nomination complies  with a tradition that the president be a Maronite Christian, the prime  minister a Sunni Muslim and Parliament speaker a Shiite Muslim.
The  government is run by the joint efforts of the three officials.
Jumblatt  said his party will also boycott a Parliamentary session to amend  the Constitution so that senior public servants can run for president.
Criticism of the nomination process also came from a meeting of Catholic  bishops on Wednesday.
Nevertheless, the bishops welcomed the choice  of Lahoud, a fellow Catholic, a statement said.
Lebanon's Parliament on Tuesday ratified a constitutional amendment  to clear the way for the election of the army's commander, Gen. Emile  Lahoud, as president.
Lahoud has received the backing of Syria, the  main power broker in the country, making the election by Lebanon's  pro-Syrian Parliament later this week just a formality.
A total of  113 deputies voted for the amendment and four deputies against, including  the general's cousin, Nassib Lahoud, a presidential aspirant.
Eleven  deputies were absent.
Among those who were absent was Walid Jumblatt,  a Cabinet minister who had said he would boycott the session to protest  the choice of a military man even though Lahoud has wide public and  political support.
The 128-member legislature is expected to meet  Thursday to elect Lahoud after outgoing President Elias Hrawi signs  the constitutional amendment.
The amendment to Article 49 of the constitution  revokes a ban on senior civil servants from running for the presidency.
The new president will be sworn in Nov. 24, the day Hrawi leaves office.
Hrawi has served for nine years, including a three-year extension  in 1995 to his six-year term.
Lahoud, a Maronite Catholic, will keep  alive a 55-year-old tradition under which the president is a Maronite,  the prime minister a Sunni Muslim and the Parliament speaker a Shiite  Muslim.
Lahoud, appointed army commander in 1989 amid a rebellion  in the fractured military during the 1975-90 civil war, is credited  with rebuilding the 55,000-strong Lebanese army and in ending the  reign of militias.
Many hope he will copy his success with the military  in the government, which is plagued by nepotism and waste of public  funds.
But some fear of military dominance of public life.
Parliament on Thursday formally elected Gen. Emile Lahoud, the popular  army commander who has the backing of powerful neighbor Syria, as  Lebanon's next president.
All the 118 legislators present at the session  cast votes in his favor.
Lahoud is to be sworn for a six-year term  on Nov. 24, the day President Elias Hrawi leaves office.
Parliament on Thursday formally elected Gen. Emile Lahoud, the popular  army commander who has the backing of powerful neighbor Syria, as  Lebanon's next president.
All the 118 legislators present at the session  cast votes in his favor.
Lahoud is to be sworn in for a six-year term  on Nov. 24, the day President Elias Hrawi leaves office.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri's efforts to win a fourth term in office  have hit a snag after he failed to receive the expected speedy appointment  from new President Emile Lahoud.
Hariri is still the front-runner  to form the next government but Saturday's Daily Star newspaper quoted  sources as saying that Hariri was ``outraged'' that only 62 of the  128 members in Parliament declared their support for him during a  meeting with Lahoud Friday.
According to the constitution, a president  must begin his term by appointing the prime minister and a Cabinet  through a decree issued after consulting with Parliament members.
A presidential decree was expected Friday but nothing came through  after a meeting between Lahoud and Hariri.
Hariri had even scheduled  Friday a traditional meeting between the prime minister-designate  and former prime ministers, but that was canceled.
The state-run National  News Agency said that while only 62 deputies told Lahoud they supported  Hariri, the rest refused to divulge their choice or left it to the  president to decide.
A TV station owned by Hariri said he won the  backing of at least 100 deputies.
The delay reflects the tug-of-war  among the power brokers in the country.
Under a formula aimed at preventing  the recurrence of the 1975-90 civil war, power in Lebanon is shared  equally by a Maronite Christian president, a Sunni Muslim prime minister  and a Shiite Parliament speaker.
While the Christian Lahoud may have  no objection to appointing the Sunni Hariri, it is possible that Parliament  Speaker Nabih Berri's 19 Shiite supporters in the legislature are  holding out to emphasize their value.
The leading An-Nahar and other  newspapers said the delay could last for days.
But in the end, it  is Hariri that is most likely to be renamed on the strength of his  record in office.
Hariri, Lebanon's top businessman, has almost single-handedly  created a multibillion dollar program to rebuild a country destroyed  by the civil war.
He is also credited with stabilizing the currency  and restoring confidence in the postwar economy.
But his government  under former president Elias Hrawi were dogged by accusations of corruption.
Hariri, who has been prime minister since 1992, was appointed three  times during the extended term of former President Elias Hrawi.
He  has remained in office as caretaker prime minister since Lahoud succeeded  Hrawi on Tuesday.
Lahoud, a general who as army commander rebuilt  the military from 1989 until his election by Parliament in October,  has pledged in his inauguration speech Tuesday to clean up the corruption-plagued  administration.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has declined an informal invitation from  Lebanon's new president to form the next government, sparking a political  crisis in this country as it rebuilds from its devastating civil war.
Sources close to the prime minister, whose Cabinet has been in care-taker  capacity since last Tuesday's swearing in of Emile Lahoud as president,  said Hariri turned down the invitation from Lahoud to select a new  Cabinet.
There has been no formal announcement from Lahoud reappointing  Hariri as prime minister.
Although Hariri's move could be a bargaining  tactic, since he remains the front-runner for the premiership, the  apparent tension between the two powerful men could affect Lebanon's  economic stability as it recovers from the 1975-90 civil war.
Hariri,  53, the architect of Lebanon's multibillion dollar postwar reconstruction  program, has been in power since 1992.
A billionaire businessman who  made his fortune in Saudi Arabia, Hariri is credited with restoring  economic confidence and stabilizing the national currency.
Lahoud,  62, commander of Lebanon's army who was propelled to power with widespread  popular backing, pledged in a tough inauguration speech to clean up  the graft-riddled administration.
The British-trained general made  his name rebuilding the army after it disintegrated in the civil war.
Previous disputes among government leaders have cost the Central Bank  hundreds of millions of dollars in its efforts to stabilize the Lebanese  pound.
Such political disputes in Lebanon in the past were solved  only with the intervention of Syria, the main power broker in this  country.
Damascus supports both Lahoud and Hariri.
Lahoud had been  expected to issue a presidential decree last week asking Hariri to  form the next government.
The decree was to be issued after the president  polled members of the 128-seat Parliament on their choice for prime  minister.
But many legislators, who in the past gave their overwhelming  support to Hariri, did not name him and, instead, left it to the president  to select a prime minister.
The two leaders met Friday, but no presidential  decree followed.
The sources close to Hariri, speaking on condition  of anonymity, said the prime minister's decision to bow out came because  he did not feel Lahoud was following constitutional procedures in  selecting the premier.
The Hariri camp argues that the president can  poll Parliament members on their choice for prime minister but cannot  accept a mandate to name a person of his choice.
The dispute, in fact,  appears to be the opening salvo of a struggle on how Lebanon will  be governed during Lahoud's six-year term.
Toward the end of former  President Elias Hrawi's nine years in office, Hariri virtually had  a free hand in running the country.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has declined an informal invitation from  Lebanon's new president to form the next government, sparking a political  crisis in this country as it rebuilds from its devastating civil war.
Sources close to the prime minister, whose Cabinet has been in care-taker  capacity since last Tuesday's swearing in of Emile Lahoud as president,  said Hariri turned down the invitation from Lahoud to select a new  Cabinet.
There has been no formal announcement from Lahoud reappointing  Hariri as prime minister.
Although Hariri's move could be a bargaining  tactic, since he remains the front-runner for the premiership, the  apparent tension between the two powerful men could affect Lebanon's  economic stability as it recovers from the 1975-90 civil war.
Hariri,  53, the architect of Lebanon's multibillion dollar postwar reconstruction  program, has been in power since 1992.
A billionaire businessman who  made his fortune in Saudi Arabia, Hariri is credited with restoring  economic confidence and stabilizing the national currency.
The dispute  appears to be the opening salvo of a struggle on how Lebanon will  be governed during Lahoud's six-year term.
Toward the end of former  President Elias Hrawi's nine years in office, Hariri virtually had  a free hand in running the country.
Lahoud, 62, a former commander  of Lebanon's army, was propelled to power with widespread popular  backing.
He pledged in a tough inauguration speech to clean up the  graft-riddled administration.
The British-trained general made his  name rebuilding the army after it disintegrated in the civil war.
Similar political disputes in Lebanon in the past have been solved  only with the intervention of Syria, the main power broker in this  country.
Damascus supports both Lahoud and Hariri.
Lahoud had been  expected to issue a presidential decree last week asking Hariri to  form the next government after the president polled members of the  128-seat Parliament on their choice for prime minister.
But many legislators,  who in the past gave their overwhelming support to Hariri, did not  name him and, instead, left it to the president to select a prime  minister.
The two leaders met Friday, but no presidential decree followed.
The sources close to Hariri, speaking on condition of anonymity, said  the prime minister's decision to bow out came because he did not feel  Lahoud was following constitutional procedures in selecting the premier.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, the business tycoon who launched Lebanon's  multibillion dollar reconstruction from the devastation of civil war,  said Monday he was bowing out as premier following a dispute with  the new president.
He accused President Emile Lahoud of violating  the constitution and demanded that he acknowledge it before he could  reconsider his position.
Hariri's move could be a ploy to gain more  power as a new government is formed, but the crisis atmosphere generated  by the possible departure of the billionaire businessman could affect  Lebanon's economic recovery.
``I'm not a candidate,'' Hariri said  in a live interview with CNN.
He demanded that Lahoud admit that he  acted unconstitutionally by allowing 31 Parliament deputies to authorize  him to name a prime minister instead of naming one themselves.
Such  an action ``might put the country in danger,'' Hariri warned.
Asked  if there was a risk of renewed conflict in Lebanon over the alleged  tampering with the constitution, Hariri said: ``If the president continues  with this, I don't know what will happen.''
But the dispute between  the two leaders appears to be over who will have the upper hand in  governing the nation of 3.2 million.
Lahoud, 62, is an army commander  who wants to assert his authority at the start of his six-year presidential  term.
Hariri, 53, virtually has had a free hand in running the country  since he became premier six years ago under former President Elias  Hrawi.
A brief meeting on Monday between the two did not help resolve  the disagreements.
Hariri's Cabinet has been serving in a caretaker  capacity since Lahoud's inauguration last Tuesday.
Lahoud on Monday  set the stage for choosing a new prime minister when he scheduled  a fresh round of consultations with Parliament for Tuesday and Wednesday.
In a statement, Lahoud said Hariri was asked but declined to form  the next government after a previous round of consultations.
The offer  came after the 128 legislators polled by the president gave Hariri  a majority but fell short of the near unanimous backing he had received  in his previous three mandates since 1992.
Hariri is credited with  restoring economic confidence and stabilizing the national currency.
His globe-trotting travels to drum up political and economic support  were sometimes instrumental in drawing international financial aid  and investment.
But he was faulted for declining living standards  at home and a rise in corruption in government.
Lahoud pledged in  a tough inauguration speech to clean up the graft-riddled administration.
The general enjoys widespread popular backing after succeeding in  rebuilding an army fractured by civil war.
Central bank officials  on Monday tried to calm fears about a run on the Lebanese pound by  announcing that the bank was ready to intervene with its foreign currency  reserves if necessary, the state-run National News Agency reported.
It added that the money markets remained stable.
Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, the business tycoon who launched Lebanon's  multibillion dollar reconstruction from the devastation of civil war,  said Monday he was bowing out as premier following a dispute with  the new president.
He accused President Emile Lahoud of violating  the constitution and demanded that he acknowledge it before he could  reconsider his position.
Hariri's move could be a ploy to gain more  power as a new government is formed, but the crisis atmosphere generated  by the possible departure of the billionaire businessman could affect  Lebanon's economic recovery.
``I'm not a candidate,'' Hariri said  in a live interview with CNN.
He demanded that Lahoud admit that he  acted unconstitutionally by allowing 31 Parliament deputies to authorize  him to name a prime minister instead of naming one themselves.
Such  an action ``might put the country in danger,'' Hariri warned.
Asked  if there was a risk of renewed conflict in Lebanon over the alleged  tampering with the constitution, Hariri said: ``If the president continues  with this, I don't know what will happen.''
But the dispute between  the two leaders appears to be over who will have the upper hand in  governing the nation of 3.2 million.
Lahoud, 62, is an army commander  who wants to assert his authority at the start of his six-year presidential  term.
Hariri, 53, virtually has had a free hand in running the country  since he became premier six years ago under former President Elias  Hrawi.
A brief meeting on Monday between the two did not help resolve  the disagreements.
Hariri's Cabinet has been serving in a caretaker  capacity since Lahoud's inauguration last Tuesday.
Lahoud on Monday  set the stage for choosing a new prime minister when he scheduled  a fresh round of consultations with Parliament for Tuesday and Wednesday.
In a statement, Lahoud said Hariri was asked but declined to form  the next government after a previous round of consultations.
The offer  came after the 128 legislators polled by the president gave Hariri  a majority but fell short of the near unanimous backing he had received  in his previous three mandates since 1992.
Hariri is credited with  restoring economic confidence and stabilizing the national currency.
His globe-trotting travels to drum up political and economic support  were sometimes instrumental in drawing international financial aid  and investment.
But he was faulted for declining living standards  at home and a rise in corruption in government.
Lahoud pledged in  a tough inauguration speech to clean up the graft-riddled administration.
The general enjoys widespread popular backing after succeeding in  rebuilding an army fractured by civil war.
Central bank officials  on Monday tried to calm fears about a run on the Lebanese pound by  announcing that the bank was ready to intervene with its foreign currency  reserves if necessary, the state-run National News Agency reported.
It added that the money markets remained stable.
While China plans to sign the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights at the U.N., it is still harassing and arresting human rights campaigners.
Three prominent leaders of the China Democratic Party were put to trial and sentenced to 11-, 12- and 13-year prison terms.
Germany and the U.S. condemned the arrests.
A labor rights activist was released and exiled to the U.S. to blunt any opposition to Communist rule.
U.S. policy to encourage trade and diplomacy in hope of democratic reforms evidences failure, but the U.S. is continuing its policy of encouragement.
Friends of jailed dissidents state that they will continue to campaign for change.
The US trade-driven policy of expanded ties encouraging Chinese democracy is questioned.
China signed rights treaties and dissidents used new laws to set up China Democracy Party, but China violates the new laws by persecuting dissidents.
It regularly frees activists from prison then exiles them so they lose local influence.
It arrested an activist trying to register a rights monitoring group.
CP leader Jiang's hard-line speech and publicity for activists sentenced to long prison terms signals a renewed Chinese crackdown.
A rights activist expected to be sacrificed in the cause of democracy.
Germany called China's sentencing of dissidents unacceptable.
After 2 years of wooing the West by signing international accords, apparently relaxing controls on free speech, and releasing and exiling three dissenters, China cracked down against political dissent in Dec 1998.
Leaders of the China Democracy Party (CDP) were arrested and three were sentenced to jail terms of 11 to 13 years.
The West, including the US, UK and Germany, reacted strongly.
Clinton's China policy of engagement was questioned.
China's Jiang Zemin stated economic reform is not a prelude to democracy and vowed to crush any challenges to the Communist Party or "social stability".
The CDP vowed to keep working, as more leaders awaited arrest.
Xu Wenli, Wang Youchai, and Qin Yongmin, leading dissidents and prominent members of the China Democracy Party, were found guilty of subversion and sentenced to 13, 11, and 12 years in prison, respectively.
Soon after the sentencing, China's president, Jiang Zemin, delivered speeches in which he asserted that Western political system must not be adopted and vowed to crush challenges to Communist Party rule.
The harsh sentences and speeches signal a crackdown on dissent, but Zha Jianguo, another Democracy Party leader, says he will continue to push for change.
Western nations condemned the sentences as violations of U.N. rights treaties signed by China.
Hours before China was expected to sign a key U.N. human rights treaty  and host British Prime Minister Tony Blair, police hauled a prominent  human rights campaigner in for questioning Monday.
Qin Yongmin's latest  run-in with the authorities came as he tried for the second time in  a week to legally register a human rights monitoring group.
Qin said  a civil affairs official in the Hubei provincial capital of Wuhan  accused him of engaging in illegal activities.
The police came soon  after he returned home.
``As I'm sending this statement, the Wuhan  Public Security Bureau is again taking me away,'' Qin said in a hastily  scrawled message on the bottom of the typed statement faxed to reporters.
Qin, detained briefly two weeks ago, was questioned for about three  hours before being released and threatened with prosecution if he  persisted in trying to set up his China Human Rights Observer.
Qin  hoped the harassment would stop after China signs the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, but he said if local authorities  don't observe the treaty ``we will unswervingly push ahead with protecting  human rights to the last.''
China plans to sign the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on Monday at the United Nations.
By the time the ink is dry, Blair should be landing in Beijing on  Tuesday morning for the first visit by a British prime minister in  seven years.
The treaty is supposed to guarantee freedoms of speech  and assembly.
But even after China signs, the treaty would not come  into force until ratified by the legislature, which may attach reservations  effectively nullifying some provisions.
Blair has vowed to discuss  differences over human rights with Chinese leaders.
His visit has  drawn appeals from dissidents and an international press freedom group  urging him to persuade Chinese leaders to free political prisoners.
In an open letter, three dissident said that while Chinese leaders  say they respect human rights principles, in law and practice the  government allows rights abuses and persecution of dissidents.
Thousands  of political prisoners are believed to remain in Chinese prisons,  labor camps or detention centers, said the letter, a copy of which  was released by the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights  and Democratic Movement in China.
The letter called for the release  of Shi Binhai, a journalist who compiled a popular book on political  change; Fang Jue, a businessman who called openly for political reform;  and other imprisoned activists.
Paris-based Reporters Without Borders  urged Blair to call for the release of Gao Yu, Liu Xiaobo and Liu  Jingsheng.
The three are among 13 journalists imprisoned ``simply  for attempting to practice their profession,'' it said in a statement.
China released a respected, but ailing labor rights campaigner from  a prison work camp Sunday and immediately sent him into exile in the  United States.
Releasing Liu Nianchun appeared to be an attempt by  the government to blunt international criticism over Monday's upcoming  trial of prominent dissident Xu Wenli.
Xu is the third leading member  of a would-be opposition political party put on trial for subversion  in a three-week crackdown that has seen at least 32 dissidents arrested  or interrogated.
Beijing police Sunday detained one of Xu's China  Democracy Party colleagues, Zha Jianguo, to prevent him from attending  the trial, Xu's wife said.
Although pleased that Liu Nianchun was  free, human rights groups decried the Chinese government's timing  as manipulative.
``We don't want to give any credit to the Chinese  government for this cynical game it is playing,'' said Xiao Qiang,  director of New York-based Human Rights in China.
After 3 1/2 years  in prison, Liu was taken from the Tuanhe labor camp on the outskirts  of Beijing, driven to the capital's airport and put on a Canadian  Air flight, ultimately bound for New York, his mother and brother  said.
Accompanying Liu into exile was his wife, Chu Hailan, and their  11-year-old daughter, the family said.
Liu Nianchun's release follows  the same pattern China used in freeing its two most famous dissidents,  Wei Jingsheng in Nov. 1997 and Wang Dan in April.
Authorities released  Liu on medical parole, exactly five months before the end of his prison  term, provided he go into exile, said his brother and exiled democracy  campaigner, Liu Qing.
Liu Nianchun, 50, has been in ill-health for  at least two years.
In an exam authorities finally agreed to provide  last month, doctors discovered Liu had tumors in his mouth, stomach  and bowels, Liu Qing said.
Like Wang and Wei, the United States and  other Western governments have lobbied China to release Liu.
Chinese  leaders have been forcing well-known dissidents into exile throughout  the 1990s, finding that once abroad they lose their influence among  dissidents at home.
In the only official comment on the release, the  Xinhua News Agency reported that judicial departments took into account  Liu's health and behavior in the labor camp in approving his parole  for medical treatment.
``I am very happy for Liu Nianchun, but at  the same time sending people directly from prison into exile is a  type of human rights violation and persecution,'' Liu Qing said in  a telephone interview from his home in New York's Brooklyn borough.
Liu Nianchun was one of the most respected figures in the fractured,  persecuted dissident community.
His more than 3 1/2 years in prisons  and labor camps was a sad illustration of the way China's Communist  Party rulers punish people they deem a threat.
Liu was imprisoned  three times in the past 17 years.
His last arrest came after he signed  a petition calling for labor rights in May 1995.
Liu was never put  on trial.
Fourteen months passed before his wife, Chu Hailan, first  learned of his fate and whereabouts: a three-year spell in a labor  camp in the frigid, remote northeast.
His term was the maximum police  may impose on criminal suspects without trial.
Labor camp officials  later extended Liu's sentence by a year for trying to escape, a charge  Chu claimed was fabricated.
Inside the labor camp, Liu once started  a hunger strike to protest his treatment.
He was beaten with cattle  prods and confined to a room of 2 square meters (2 square yards) where  he could only sit or stand.
His wife endured police harassment, beatings  and detentions in campaigning for his release.
Chu was dragged away  and hit by security forces when she tried to hand a letter to U.N.  human rights chief Mary Robinson outside a Beijing hotel in September.
Trying to deflect foreign criticism of a crackdown on democracy campaigners,  China sent a respected labor rights activist from jail into U.S. exile  Sunday even as it prepared to put a prominent dissident on trial.
Xu Wenli's trial Monday and his almost certain conviction would deprive  a nascent opposition political party of a potent organizer and a moderate  voice.
He is the third and most influential leader in the China Democracy  Party tried in a three-week campaign that has seen at least 32 members  detained or questioned.
For organizing the party and thereby challenging  the ruling Communist Party, Xu, 55, is accused of subverting state  power, a crime punishable by 10 years to life in prison.
To prevent  supporters from rallying outside Beijing's No. 1 Intermediate People's  Court, police detained two of Xu's colleagues Sunday and kept watch  on the homes of at least two others, friends and a Hong Kong-based  rights group reported.
As police moved against Xu's friends, labor  rights campaigner Liu Nianchun was taken from a prison camp outside  Beijing and, with his wife and daughter, was put on a plane to Canada  and then New York, his first taste of freedom in more than 3 1/2 years.
Authorities released Liu on medical parole five months before the  end of his sentence provided he go abroad, said his brother, exiled  democracy campaigner Liu Qing.
His wife claimed for two years that  Liu's health was worsening.
But only last month did authorities grant  a comprehensive exam.
Doctors found tumors, perhaps cancerous, in  the 50-year-old's mouth, stomach and bowels, Liu Qing said.
The timing  of Liu's exile and Xu's trial was the most brazen in a string of high-profile  dissident releases calculated to influence Western governments.
Human  rights groups immediately denounced Liu's release as cynical and manipulative.
``The Chinese government continues to play hostage politics with no  true commitment to international human rights standards,'' said Xiao  Qiang of Human Rights in China, a New York-based lobbying group that  Liu Qing heads.
Over the past two years, as China tried to woo the  West, Beijing signed two key U.N. rights treaties and won praise for  bringing its spotty legal system closer to international standards.
The ruling Communist Party relaxed some controls on dissenting views  among academics.
Xu Wenli and other dissidents saw opportunity in  the more open atmosphere.
Over the past six months, dissidents in  14 provinces and cities have tried to use Chinese laws to set up and  register the China Democracy Party.
In a sign of the opposition party's  appeal, 205 dissidents from across China issued a petition Sunday  calling for the immediate release of Xu and two other leaders, the  Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic  Movement in China reported.
To wipe out the opposition movement, authorities  have violated recently revised laws that are supposed to protect the  rights of criminal suspects.
They rushed Xu and fellow leader Qin  Yongmin to trial with less than four days notice given to their families,  instead of the 10 required by law.
Qin and a third principal organizer,  Wang Youcai, were also denied legal counsel.
Police detained or scared  off prospective lawyers, forcing the two to argue their own defenses  in separate trials on Thursday.
No verdicts have been announced.
The  Beijing court appointed Xu a lawyer, but his wife, He Xintong, suspects  it is merely a formality in what she expects to be a show trial.
``He  hasn't even read the whole indictment.
How is he going to represent  my husband?''
He Xintong said after talking with the lawyer and his  aide.
Authorities have turned down requests by Xu's colleagues to  attend the trial, and He said she has been given one pass, for herself.
Xu edited an influential dissident journal in the Democracy Wall movement  20 years ago and spent 12 years in prison, most of them in solitary  confinement.
Since his parole ended last year, Xu has played the role  of elder adviser to dissidents.
He became openly involved in the China  Democracy Party in November, organizing the group's branch in Beijing  and nearby Tianjin.
Shortly before his arrest, he called on party  members and exiled dissidents to convene a nationwide congress.
In stern judgments capping a decisive crackdown on dissidents, Chinese  courts sentenced two prominent democracy campaigners to 13 and 11  years in prison Monday for trying to organize an opposition political  party.
The 13-year prison term given Xu Wenli after a 3 1/2-hour trial  in Beijing was the longest for a Chinese dissident in three years.
His colleague in the China Democracy Party, Wang Youcai, was sentenced  to 11 years, in a verdict announced by a court in Hangzhou four days  after his trial.
Xu's conviction deprives the would-be opposition  group of a potent organizer and the fractured dissident community  at large of a strong and moderating voice.
Xu remained defiant during  his tightly controlled trial on subversion charges.
He refused to  answer questions from prosecutors and judges and responded only to  those from his lawyer, the court-appointed attorney, Mo Shaoping,  said.
When the court asked if he would appeal, ``Xu Wenli said he  would not appeal,'' Mo said, quoting his client as saying ``this is  political persecution.''
Xu's daughter also criticized the verdict.
``All he wanted to do was to advocate free speech and make sure the  party registers peacefully.
But the government failed this test, and  now my father has to go to jail again for it,'' said daughter Xu Jin,  a graduate student at Boston University.
Security forces have orchestrated  a concerted crackdown, trampling China's slim legal safeguards to  crush the China Democracy Party.
In three weeks, at least 32 people  have been detained or questioned and Xu, Wang and another leading  member, Qin Yongmin, have been put on trial.
All three were charged  with trying to subvert China's Communist Party-led system.
Xu and  Qin were given less than four days to prepare their defenses.
Last  Thursday, Wang and Qin faced trials without legal counsel after police  detained or scared off potential lawyers.
No verdict has been announced  in Qin's case.
Judges in Beijing and Hangzhou found that Xu and Wang  plotted subversion by founding branches of the China Democracy Party  in both cities and accepting money from abroad, the official Xinhua  News Agency said in a rare mention of dissident activities.
The courts  ruled the two should be ``severely punished'' as repeat offenders,  Xinhua said in an indirect reference to their previous democracy campaigning.
Wary of the China Democracy Party's appeal, scores of uniformed and  plainclothes police sealed off Beijing's No. 1 Intermediate People's  Court Monday for Xu's trial.
Foreign reporters were kept 500 meters  (yards) away from the building.
Xu's wife was the only friend or family  member given permission to watch the proceedings, along with an audience  selected by court officials.
She was escorted from her home to the  courthouse by three plainclothes officers.
Hours after the verdict,  He Xintong still had not returned home nor had she contacted her daughter.
Police detained at least two of Xu's democracy party colleagues and  kept watch on the houses of others.
``Members of the China Democracy  Party will struggle to the end for the realization of democracy,''  said Gao Hongmin, whose home was under surveillance.
Gao, who helped  Xu organize the party's Beijing branch, said authorities would not  be able to arrest all the party's supporters.
In just six months,  the party attracted enough of a following to try to register branches  in 14 provinces and cities.
The U.S. government and exiled dissidents,  many of whom supported the party's efforts, denounced the sentences  and called for the dissidents' release.
``We are deeply disappointed  with both the guilty verdict and the extremely harsh sentence given  to Mr. Xu,'' said U.S. Embassy spokesman Bill Palmer.
``No individual  should be arrested, tried or sentenced for exercising internationally  recognized freedoms.''
Xu, 55, edited an underground journal in the  Democracy Wall movement 20 years ago and spent 12 years in prison,  mostly in solitary confinement.
Since his parole ended last year,  he has been behind-the-scenes advisor to a host of dissident activities.
He supported Qin Yongmin, another Democracy Wall veteran, in setting  up an independent human rights monitor and advised others to run for  local legislative seats in Beijing.
Xu became openly involved in the  China Democracy Party in November.
Wang Youcai, a student leader of  the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations in 1989 and now 32,  publicly declared the China Democracy Party's formation in June and  said the group intended to challenge the Communist Party's 49-year  ban on opposition politics.
Police have sporadically detained supporters  of the democracy party.
The decisive move came on Nov. 30 as Chinese  Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin returned from Japan, ending a busy  two years of diplomatic forays.
In a speech broadcast nationwide on  Friday, Jiang warned against subversives trying to bring down the  system and vowed never to copy Western democracy.
To allay international  criticism, China released a respected labor rights campaigner, Liu  Nianchun, from 3 1/2 years in prison camps on Sunday and sent him  into exile in the United States.
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who drew China's anger recently  by meeting with exiled dissident Wei Jingsheng, said China's sentencing  of two dissidents Monday was unacceptable and flouted an international  treaty the country recently signed.
``The reaction of Chinese authorities  is totally unacceptable,'' Fischer said, calling for the dissidents'  immediate release.
``The accused simply tried through peaceful means  to exercise their right to free speech and assembly, which are guaranteed  by China's constitution,'' and by the United Nations' International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which China recently signed,  Fischer said in a statement.
Chinese courts sentenced dissidents Xu  Wenli and Wang Youcai to 13 and 11 years for trying to organize an  opposition political party.
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who drew China's anger recently  by meeting with exiled dissident Wei Jingsheng, said China's sentencing  of two dissidents Monday was unacceptable and flouted an international  treaty the country recently signed.
``The reaction of Chinese courts  is totally unacceptable,'' Fischer said, calling for the dissidents'  immediate release.
``The accused simply tried through peaceful means  to exercise their right to free speech and assembly, which are guaranteed  by China's constitution,'' and by the United Nations' International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which China recently signed,  Fischer said in a statement.
Chinese courts sentenced dissidents Xu  Wenli and Wang Youcai to 13 and 11 years for trying to organize an  opposition political party.
The trials of three outspoken dissidents over, Communist Party leader  Jiang Zemin signaled Wednesday that China will sustain a crackdown  on dissent throughout next year.
In his second hard-line speech in  six days, Jiang vowed to crush any challenges to Communist Party rule  and preserve social stability.
He demanded that officials ``talk politics''  a euphemism for following party orders.
The speech, to senior law  enforcement officials, used uncompromising language heard less frequently  over the past 18 months as Chinese leaders sought to improve relations  abroad.
Jiang's harsh tone punctuated the summary trials and convictions  for subversion this week of three political critics who tried to form  an opposition party.
To underscore the party's intolerant mood, national  newspapers ran brief accounts Tuesday and Wednesday of the 13-, 12-  and 11-year prison terms given to Xu Wenli, Qin Yongmin and Wang Youcai.
Dissidents are rarely mentioned by official media, and the reports  served as a warning to China's 1.2 billion people.
In the speech,  reported by state television, Jiang said stability was crucial over  the next year.
He noted two key events on the political calendar:  the 50th anniversary of Communist Party rule on Oct. 1 and China's  recovery of the Portuguese colony of Macau on Dec. 20.
``We must strengthen  the ideological and political education of officials and raise their  awareness of and resistance to the sabotaging acts of hostile domestic  and foreign forces,'' China Central Television quoted Jiang as saying.
``Whenever any element that undermines stability raises its head,  it must be resolutely nipped in the bud.''
Jiang did not exclusively  target political enemies.
He likened their threat to that of white-collar  and ordinary criminals and ticked off a list of potentially volatile  problems _ inefficient state industries, legions of laid-off workers,  stagnating farmers' incomes and corrupt officials.
The emphasis on  stability and warnings to those who would disrupt it were reminiscent  of party pronouncements in the waning years of Jiang's mentor, Deng  Xiaoping.
After Deng died in 1997 and Jiang emerged victorious from  a major party conclave, he projected a more confident image.
Reform,  not stability, were the bywords of the past year.
Academic debates  over the past year were the boldest in 10 years by China's relatively  controlled standards.
Party leaders too touted efforts to build a  more comprehensive, predictable legal system and won praise from Western  governments for signing U.N. rights treaties.
``Our active developments  of foreign affairs has reached new achievements,'' Jiang said.
``Our  country's stature has risen a step higher.''
By arresting and convicting  Xu, Qin and Wang in less than three weeks, China trampled its own  legal safeguards for criminal suspects and raised questions about  its commitments to U.N. rights treaties it signed over the past 15  months.
Despite the swift punishments given the three, dissidents  have continued to campaign for justice.
Four elder members of the  dissident community sent a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan  and U.N. human rights commissioner Mary Robinson calling on China  to stop persecuting political critics and release political prisoners.
``We have experienced extreme disappointment, worry and shock'' over  the long sentences given Xu, Qin and Wang and the recent detentions  of several other Chinese, the four wrote in a letter dated Tuesday  that was released by New York-based Human Rights in China on Wednesday.
In addition, 214 dissidents in China planned a 100-day series of rotating  24-hour fasts beginning Thursday to protest the sentences, the Information  Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported Wednesday  night.
The fasts were to have begun with lawyer Wang Wenjiang, whom  authorities prevented from representing Wang Youcai, and Wang Zechen  in Liaoning province in northeastern China, but the two activists  were detained by police Wednesday evening, the Hong Kong-based center  said.
The British ambassador in Beijing, Tony Galsworthy, and others  delivered a protest message to the Chinese government demanding the  immediate release of Xu, Qin and Wang, the Foreign Office in London  confirmed on Wednesday.
It was conveyed on behalf of the European  Union, the United States, Canada and Norway.
His friend and political mentor is jailed, robbing their budding opposition  political party of its most potent organizer, but Zha Jianguo is not  afraid.
A bag packed with toothbrush, toothpaste and medicine lies  ready at his Beijing home for the day Chinese police take him away.
He has told police interrogators he expects to be jailed, likely for  a few years less than the 13 given China Democracy Party leader Xu  Wenli on Monday.
``Democracy is a process, and in that process a small  number of people will be sacrificed,'' Zha, a 47-year-old former manager  of a computer design company and vice chairman of the party's Beijing  branch, told The Associated Press in an interview Thursday.
``We want  to use our sacrifice to arouse the people, and we believe that sacrifice  is worthwhile.''
With a mixture of defiance and cool clarity about  the chances for success, Zha said he and other China Democracy Party  members will continue organizing and campaigning for change.
His tenacity  holds despite the summary trials and harsh punishments for Xu, Wang  prominent party principals from the provinces  who were sentenced to 11 and 12 years _ and despite threatening signs  from the ruling Communist Party.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin warned  in a speech published Wednesday that political subversives threatened  what he called China's fragile social order.
``Whenever any element  that undermines stability raises its head, it must be resolutely nipped  in the bud,'' Jiang said.
Zha maintains that such tactics are unnecessary.
In its manifestoes, the Democracy Party espoused peaceful means to  target ``the undemocratic system, not the political power of the Communist  Party.''
``We believe elections held after the establishment of a  democratic system should decide who has the power,'' said Zha.
What  many the world over consider democracy is legally subversive in China  for threatening the Communist Party-led system.
In the past month,  authorities have arrested and convicted Xu, Qin and Wang and detained  or interrogated at least 29 other party members.
Police took Zha from  his home Sunday afternoon and held him for nearly 24 hours to keep  him from Xu's trial.
Until the crackdown, the China Democracy Party  distinguished itself from past attempts at opposition by its openness.
Organizers publicly announced their intention to set up the party.
They tried to register with authorities.
Statements were faxed to  foreign media and human rights groups to circumvent China's state-controlled  media.
Now, the party's members _ about 500 by Zha's count _ are being  driven underground.
Party members will concentrate on increasing ranks  and will be more guarded in the use of telephones and faxes and their  occasional meetings, Zha said.
``If Xu and the other two were the  first round, then the second round is very likely and it will be bigger,''  Zha said.
``In such an unbalanced contest, we are forced to use more  secretive means.''
The arrests of Xu, Wang and Qin deprive the party  of its more influential members, Zha said.
All had proven track records,  Xu and Qin as dissident editors in the Democracy Wall era movement  20 years ago, Wang as a student leader of the Tiananmen Square democracy  demonstrations in 1989.
``But from another aspect, this has strengthened  the resolve of even more party members to struggle on,'' Zha said  of the arrests.
Zha got interested in politics as a radical youth,  following Mao Tse-tung's appeals to go to the countryside in 1968.
When he returned to Beijing in 1989, he marched in the Tiananmen protests  and continued his activism.
Friends introduced him to Xu Wenli in  1995.
Having been released from prison two years before, Xu was still  not openly involved in dissident politics, but he held court in his  Beijing home to discuss China's future.
By sentencing two of the country's most prominent democracy campaigners  to long prison terms, China on Monday took its harshest steps yet  in its current crackdown on organized political opposition.
After  at 55  the dean of the dissident movement, and a man who has already spent  12 years in prison for advocating democracy _ was sentenced to 13  years for ``subversion of state power.''
Xu's alleged crimes included  helping to organize a new political party, calling for an end to Communist  rule in interviews with foreign journalists, calling for independent  labor unions and, prosecutors said, accepting $500 from a dissident  abroad.
He was defended by a lawyer who was appointed by the court  just four days ago and met his client only once.
Also sentenced Monday,  to 11 years in prison, was Wang Youcai, 32, founder of the China Democracy  Party, which has now been suppressed.
Wang was tried on subversion  charges on Thursday in a brief court session, with no defense lawyer,  in the eastern city of Hangzhou.
The punishment of a third veteran  democracy campaigner, Qin Yongmin, 44, has not been announced.
His  trial began in the central city of Wuhan on Thursday and may reconvene  on Tuesday, relatives said.
A similarly long sentence is expected.
Monday's sentences, which came just six months after President Clinton's  visit to Beijing, where he publicly challenged China's leaders to  move quickly toward political reform, were harshly criticized by the  State Department.
They also appeared to spell the effective end here  of the China Democracy Party, which these three men, along with hundreds  of lesser-known individuals, tried to organize in recent months.
The  long sentences also crushed the hopes of many liberal intellectuals  here that China's warming relations with the United States in recent  years and its signing of global treaties on human rights might bring  a significant easing of political controls.
Xu was tried Monday morning  in the Beijing Intermediate Court.
When after a brief recess the three-judge  panel announced his 13-year sentence, Xu stood up and shouted, ``I  protest!''
said his wife of 28 years, He Xintong.
Then, said Ms. He  and lawyers who were present, he shouted that the judges were unfair  and that he would not appeal his case because the proceedings were  illegitimate.
With the sentencing of Xu, China's Communist government  has silenced one of its most energetic and persistent critics, one  who has given over his adult life to the cause of democracy.
Xu first  came to prominence during the Democracy Wall movement of the late  1970s, then served 12 years in prison, much of it in solitary confinement.
In the last several months, sensing a new opportunity to speak out  and making constant use of fax machines and e-mail, he and Qin tried  to draw attention to China's obligations under two international covenants  it has signed _ one on economic and cultural rights, and one on civil  and political rights.
In the face of several temporary detentions  and stiff warnings, they continued their activities.
Wang, in contrast,  first became involved in dissident activities in 1989, while a graduate  student in physics in Beijing, when he became a leader of the Tiananmen  Square demonstrations.
After the student movement was smashed by the  army, he was on the most-wanted list, then was arrested and spent  two years in prison.
During Clinton's visit to China in June, Wang  announced the formation of the China Democracy Party.
Hundreds around  the country, including Xu and Qin, began promoting the idea.
But while  the government has allowed somewhat freer discussion of political  topics in universities and obscure journals in the last year, it has  not allowed any challenges _ in print or in the form of organized  groups _ to the principle of Communist Party rule.
In a speech on  Friday celebrating 20 years of economic reforms, the president and  Communist Party chief, Jiang Zemin, emphasized the primacy of the  party, saying, ``The Western mode of political systems must never  be adopted.''
After learning of Monday's sentences, the American Embassy  here, which has spent the last two years building improved relations  between China and the United States, issued a strong condemnation  of what it termed the ``deplorable decisions.''
``We are deeply disappointed  with both the guilty verdicts and the extremely harsh sentences,''  the statement said.
``No individual should be arrested, tried and  sentenced for exercising internationally recognized freedoms, including  those guaranteed in the International Covenant on Civil and Political  Rights, to which China has committed itself.''
Like Thursday's trials,  both of which proceeded with no defense attorneys because prospective  lawyers had been warned off by police or detained, Monday's proceeding  showed that in cases involving security issues, police and courts  could write their own rules.
According to the criminal procedure law,  defendants are to be notified at least 10 days before a trial, but  Xu was told only four days ago that his trial would be Monday.
His  wife, who until Monday had not been allowed to contact him since his  arrest on Nov. 30, was told three days ago.
Under the law, defendants  also have the right to a lawyer of their choice, but Xu was assigned  a lawyer by the court late last week.
Before Monday morning's trial,  the lawyer, Mo Shaoping, saw his client only for one brief meeting,  an associate of Mo's said.
Xu's wife refused to meet the lawyer before  the trial.
``Meeting him would be tantamount to cooperating with the  whole charade,'' she said in a telephone interview this weekend.
Responding  to the accusations during Monday morning's trial, Xu's lawyer argued  that Xu had engaged in the peaceful expression of his own views and  that this could not amount to subversive activities against the state,  an associate of the lawyer said.
But in a decision that was clearly  preordained, the court declared Xu guilty and sentenced him to spend  what may be much of the rest of his life in prison.
Born in 1943 in  the southeastern province of Jiangxi, Xu was interested in politics  even as a teen-ager, his wife said.
In the 1960s, as an idealistic  Marxist, he decided to get his learning in society rather than attend  a university.
He served in the navy for five years, then became an  electrician with the Beijing railroad before becoming involved with  the democracy movement and going to prison.
On Monday afternoon, in  a police station hours after the trial finished, Xu was allowed a  half-hour with his wife.
``He told me he'd be able to handle the pain,''  she later recounted in a telephone interview.
``He said that this  would give him time to think things over and calmly reflect on what  has happened.''
Ms. He, who has been married to Xu since 1971, said  she expected to see him in monthly visits to prison.
The couple has  a daughter, Xu Jin, who is a graduate student in fine arts at Boston  University.
In an earlier interview, soon after her husband was arrested  on Nov. 30, Ms. He said Xu had told her, ``I can't change the way  I am.''
If he received a long sentence, he told his wife, she should  go on and enjoy her life.
``And if I die,'' Xu said as they parted  that day, ``please plant a tree for me.''
Six months after President Clinton traveled to Beijing and challenged  China's leaders to move rapidly toward political reform, the administration's  policy of engaging Beijing was called into question Monday when Chinese  courts sentenced three of the nation's most prominent dissidents to  long jail sentences.
Critics of China on Capitol Hill and human rights  groups said the tough prison terms were evidence of the failure of  the administration's policy of encouraging trade and diplomatic ties  Xu Wenli,  who was sentenced Monday to 13 years in prison, Wang Youcai, who received  an 11-year sentence, and Qin Yongming, who was reported to have received  12 years were charged with subversion.
The State Department said it  had received reports from sources it did not identify that a third  leading democracy campaigner, Qin Yongmin, had been sentenced to 13  years in prison after a trial last week in the city of Wuhan.
Relatives  of Qin in China denied the reports, however, and said that his trial  continued.
Given Clinton's effusive praise for China's senior leaders  during his trip to Beijing last summer, the administration found itself  on the defensive Monday and harshly criticized the prison sentences,  even as it continued to insist that the administration's policy of  engagement was helping push Beijing toward democracy.
James Foley,  a State Department spokesman, said the United States ``deeply deplores''  the jail terms and called for the immediate release of the dissidents.
``These three men appear to have been involved in nothing more than  efforts to form a new political party,'' he said.
While condemning  the prison sentences, Foley and other American officials were careful  to note the administration's assessment that there had been progress  in human rights in China, some of it linked to Clinton's meeting in  Beijing with Chinese President Jiang Zemin.
``There had been improvements  in the human rights situation in China, modest improvements,'' Foley  said.
The severe prison terms _ and other recent instances of harassment  of democracy campaigners in China _ are ``steps backward in relationship  to what had been an improved human rights performance,'' he said.
Critics of the administration's China policy noted that the long prison  sentences were handed out less than a week after Jiang delivered a  pointed speech in Beijing in which he made clear that China's economic  reforms were not a prelude to Western-style democracy.
``The Western  mode of political systems must never be copied,'' he said, adding  that those who challenged the Communist Party's supremacy would be  crushed.
Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., who has long been among China's  harshest critics in Congress, said the prison sentences handed out  to Xu and Wang were ``the clearest demonstration'' since the president's  visit to China last summer of Beijing's ``true intentions regarding  human rights.''
``They are pathetic, really pathetic,'' she said of  the administration.
``The administration can say what it wants, but  it must know Monday that its policy on China is an embarrassment.
What the Chinese have learned is that they have all the latitude in  the world.''
Mike Jendrzejczyk, Washington director for Human Rights  Group, said the jail terms were proof of the need for the administration  to revise its China policy, which he described as ``almost entirely''  driven by the administration's desire to encourage trade.
He said  that while there had been some signs of progress in the human rights  situation in China over the last year _ notably, China's agreement  to sign international treaties on civil and economic rights _ the  overall picture was bleak.
``On balance,'' he said, ``any progress  China has made by allowing greater openness may have been canceled  out by a more repressive attitude.''
Human Rights Watch, the largest  American-based human rights group, called on the administration to  consider postponing or canceling a planned visit to China early next  year by Commerce Secretary William Daley and a high-level trade delegation  as a protest over the prison sentences.
``That would get Beijing's  attention,'' Jendrzejczck said.
Other China experts and scholars insisted  that the administration was right to continue its policy of engagement  with China, and that there was reason to believe that political reform  would follow economic reform, as Clinton has argued.
Peter Rodman,  a former Nixon and Reagan administration official now at the Nixon  Center in Washington, said that ``the United States cannot control  the evolution of a society as complex as China's.''
He said the harsh  prison sentences given out Monday to the dissidents were to be expected,  especially since Xu and Wang had been involved in trying to set up  a political party to challenge the Communists.
``The pattern of this  regime is that every once in a while, they ease up a bit and somebody  goes too far and there's a crisis,'' he said.
``I don't think you  can blame the United States for this crackdown, nor can you give us  credit for any political reforms.
On human rights, I just don't think  there's much more we can do.''
British authorities arrested General Augusto Pinochet, in London for back  surgery, on an international warrant issued by Spanish magistrate Baltasar  Garzon.
The Madrid court charged Pinochet, who ruled Chile as a despot for 17  years, with crimes against humanity, including genocide and terrorism, involving  the deaths of more than 4,000 people.
The Chilean government protested that  Pinochet, now a "senator-for-life," has legal immunity, but few in Chilean  society protested the arrest.
Pinochet's arrest shows the growing significance  of international human-rights law, suggesting that officials accused of atrocities  have fewer places to hide these days, even if they are carrying diplomatic passports.
Augusto Pinochet, former Chilean dictator, was arrested in London on 14 October 1998.
Pinochet, 82, was recovering from surgery.
The arrest was in response to an extradition warrant served by Baltasar Garzon, a maverick Spanish judge.
Pinochet was charged with murdering thousands, including many Spaniards.
Pinochet is awaiting a hearing, his fate in the balance.
Chile protested, insisting that Pinochet had diplomatic immunity.
Britain disagreed.
The reaction of the Chilean people was mixed.
American scholars applauded the arrest, saying that it set a precedent for other terrorist dictators.
Castro criticized the arrest, and called it unprecedented international meddling.
Augusto Pinochet, former Chilean dictator, was arrested in London on 14 October 1998.
Pinochet, 82, was recovering from surgery.
The arrest was in response to an extradition warrant served by Baltasar Garzon, a maverick Spanish judge.
Pinochet was charged with murdering thousands, including many Spaniards.
Pinochet is awaiting a hearing, his fate in the balance.
Chile protested, insisting that Pinochet had diplomatic immunity.
Britain disagreed.
The reaction of the Chilean people was mixed.
American scholars applauded the arrest, saying that it set a precedent for other terrorist dictators.
Castro criticized the arrest, and called it unprecedented international meddling.
Former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet was arrested in London on charges of human rights violations.
Pinochet, in London for back surgery, was arrested in a Spanish warrant accusing him of genocide and terrorism.
It is alleged that Pinochet was responsible for the disappearance or death of over 3,000 people while he was dictator of Chile between 1973 and 1900.
Chile protested the arrest stating that Pinochet's status as senator-for-life gave him diplomatic immunity.
Britain's Labor government was obviously embarrassed by the diplomatic implications of the arrest.
The arrest shows the growing significance of international human rights law.
An influential lawmaker from the governing Labor Party on Saturday backed Spanish requests to question former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet, in London for back surgery, on allegations of genocide and terrorism. 	''
There've been something like a total of 3,197 cases'' of murder and torture during Pinochet's 1973-90 regime, Ann Clywd said in an interview with British Broadcasting Corp. radio.
``In the course of a long search by their relatives, the remains of some of the disappeared have been discovered in unmarked graves,'' said Ms. Clywd, who chairs an all-party committee of lawmakers on human rights.
``And hundreds of former detainees have made statements confirming that the disappeared were held in detention centers.''
``Clearly, the Spanish authorities have every right to try and investigate these matters further.''
Pinochet, 82, who underwent surgery for a herniated disc a week ago, was reported to have left London Bridge Hospital earlier Wednesday.
British authorities have declined to comment on his whereabouts or the Spanish requests.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday.
Another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a request to question Pinochet a day earlier.
In 1996, Castellon opened his probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet, who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
British police said Saturday they have arrested former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet on allegations of murdering Spanish citizens during his years in power.
Pinochet, 82, in London for surgery, was held Friday night after British authorities received a Spanish extradition warrant, a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said.
The warrant charges that between Sept. 11 1973, the year he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983, Pinochet murdered Spanish citizens in Chile, the spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously.
The spokeswoman refused to confirm Pinochet's whereabouts, but Pinochet's press secretary in Santiago said he being held in the London clinic where he underwent surgery for a herniated disc on Oct. 9.
No hearing date has been set.
Spanish Foreign Minister Abel Matutes, attending the Ibero American summit in Porto, Portugal, said his government ``respects the decisions taken by courts.''
But Chilean Ambassador to London, Mario Artaza, said he will seek the release of Pinochet _ ``what we must do is make it clear that Mr. Pinochet is a senator, who travels with a diplomatic passport,'' Artaza said.
The government has previously said that Chile does not recognize the authority of foreign courts over situations which occurred in Chile.
Pinochet, who turns 83 next month, was reported to have left London Bridge Hospital on Wednesday.
But his press secretary Fernando Martinez said he was at the clinic Friday night when police came for him.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday.
Another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a request to question Pinochet a day earlier.
Castellon's probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime began in 1996.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet is implicated in Garzon's probe through his involvement in ``Operation Condor,'' in which military regimes in Chile, Argentina and Uruguay coordinated anti-leftist campaigns 	The judges' petitions are based on the European Convention on Terrorism which requires signatories to cooperate with each others' judicial processes in cases of terrorism, according to Juan Garces, a lawyer involved in the Spanish investigation into human rights violations in Chile.
Pinochet, who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
Eight years after his turbulent regime ended, former Chilean strongman Gen. Augusto Pinochet is being called to account by Spanish authorities for the deaths, detention and torture of political opponents.
Responding to a Spanish extradition warrant, British police announced Saturday they have arrested Pinochet on allegations that he murdered an unidentified number of Spaniards in Chile between Sept. 11, 1973, the year he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983.
No reason for the dates was given.
Chile said it would protest to British authorities, arguing that the 82-year-old senator-for-life has diplomatic immunity.
But Britain said Pinochet did not have diplomatic immunity.
Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said it was ``a matter for the magistrates and the police.''
Pinochet, whose ruthless regime was widely criticized for its human rights record, was recovering from surgery in a London clinic when he was held Friday night.
No hearing date has been set.
Scotland Yard refused to confirm Pinochet's whereabouts, but his Santiago spokesman Fernando Martinez said he was in a London clinic when police came for him.
A regular visitor to Britain, Pinochet underwent surgery Oct. 9 for a herniated disc, a spinal disorder which has given him pain and hampered his walking in recent months.
In a statement issued in Porto, Portugal, where President Eduardo Frei is attending the Ibero American summit, the Chilean government said it is ``filing a formal protest with the British government for what it considers a violation of the diplomatic immunity which Sen. Pinochet enjoys.''
The statement, read by acting foreign minister Mariano Fernandez, demanded ``that steps be taken to allow an early end of this situation.''
Chile has previously said it does not recognize the authority of foreign courts over incidents within Chile.
Spanish Foreign Minister Abel Matutes, also attending the Ibero American summit, said his government ``respects the decisions taken by courts.''
British law recognizes two types of immunity: state immunity, which covers heads of state and government members on official visits, and diplomatic immunity for persons accredited as diplomats.
Jeremy Corbyn, a lawmaker from Britain's governing Labor Party, applauded the arrest.
``It will be the first time this ghastly dictator has faced questions,'' he told Sky television.
``He is one of the great murderers of this century.''
Richard Bunting of the human rights group Amnesty International, which has frequently criticized Pinochet, said the British government was ``under obligation to take legal action'' against him.
It was not immediately clear which clinic was treating Pinochet, who is 83 next week.
Staff at the London Bridge Hospital, where he reportedly had surgery, refused comment.
He has a pacemaker and hearing aid, but is generally in good health.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday, a day after another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a similar petition.
Castellon's probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime began in 1996.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet is implicated in Garzon's probe through his involvement in ``Operation Condor,'' in which military regimes in Chile, Argentina and Uruguay coordinated anti-leftist campaigns 	Pinochet, the son of a customs clerk who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
While in power he also pushed through an amnesty covering crimes committed before 1978, when most of his human rights abuses allegedly took place.
One official report says 3,197 political opponents died during his term and 1,102 people remain unaccounted for after being detained by his security agents.
Former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet has been arrested by British police on a Spanish extradition warrant, despite protests from Chile that he is entitled to diplomatic immunity.
Two Spanish judges are seeking to question Pinochet about the slayings of an unspecified number of Spaniards in Chile between Sept. 11, 1973, the date he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983.
No reason for the dates was given.
Chile said, graf 3 pvs
President Fidel Castro said Sunday he disagreed with the arrest in London of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, calling it a case of ``international meddling.''
Castro compared the action with the establishment in Rome in August of an International Criminal Court, a move Cuba has expressed reservations about.
``It seems to me that what has happened there (in London) is universal meddling,'' Castro told reporters covering the Ibero-American summit being held here Sunday.
Castro had just finished breakfast with King Juan Carlos of Spain in a city hotel.
He said the case seemed to be ``unprecedented and unusual.''
Pinochet, 82, was placed under arrest in London Friday by British police acting on a warrant issued by a Spanish judge.
The judge is probing Pinochet's role in the death of Spaniards in Chile under his rule in the 1970s and 80s.
Castro, Latin America's only remaining authoritarian leader, said he lacked details on the case against Pinochet, but said he thought it placed the government of Chile and President Eduardo Frei in an uncomfortable position while Frei is attending the summit.
Castro said the International Criminal Court ought to be independent of the U.N. Security Council, because ``we already know who commands there,'' an obvious reference to the United States.
The United States was one of only seven countries that voted against creating the court.
``The (Pinochet) case is serious ... the problem is delicate'' and the reactions of the Chilean Parliament and armed forces bear watching, Castro said.
He expressed surprise that the British had arrested Pinochet, especially since he had provided support for England during its 1982 war with Argentina over the Malvina or Falkland Islands.
Although Chile maintained neutrality during the war, it was accused of providing military intelligence to the British.
Castro joked that he would have thought police could have waited another 24 hours to avoid having the arrest of Pinochet overshadow the summit being held here.
``Now they are talking about the arrest of Pinochet instead of the summit,'' he said.
Pinochet left government in 1990, but remained as army chief until March when he became a senator-for-life.
The Chilean government has protested Pinochet's arrest, insisting that as a senator he was traveling on a diplomatic passport and had immunity from arrest.
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who ruled Chile as a despot for 17 years, has been arrested in London after Spain asked that he be extradited for the presumed murders of hundreds of Chilean and Spanish citizens, the British authorities announced Saturday.
The Chilean government immediately demanded his release, arguing that he has diplomatic immunity since he sits in the Chilean Senate.
But so far the British and Spanish authorities have shrugged off the protests, setting up what promises to be a legal struggle that could have wide implications for the prosecution of alleged human rights violators under international law.
Pinochet, who is 82 and who stepped down as commander in chief of the Chilean military five months ago, was arrested by the British police on Friday night, little more than a week after he arrived in London for surgery on a herniated disc.
The warrant said the general was wanted for questioning for ``crimes of genocide and terrorism that includes murder.''
British authorities refused to say where Pinochet is being held; nor did they set a date for when he would be questioned.
Ever since he led a violent coup to overthrow Salvador Allende Gossens, the elected Socialist president in 1973, Pinochet has been a political icon throughout Latin America, representing the excesses of a long period of military rule and U.S. support for right-wing strongmen who opposed Communism.
An estimated 3,000 Chileans were shot in the streets or ``disappeared'' during his rule, and a senior member of his regime was imprisoned under U.S. pressure for the murder of former Foreign Minister Orlando Letelier in Washington in 1976.
Pinochet cast a long and wide shadow in economic affairs as well, launching a privatized social security system and other free market policies that set examples that are still models from Argentina to Mexico.
Under a Constitution that he guided to enactment, Pinochet was able to become a senator for life upon his retirement from the military, a position that afforded him continued political influence and immunity from prosecution.
Relatives of disappeared people and political opponents have filed several lawsuits in Chile seeking to take away his immunity, but they are given little chance of success.
To this day, Chileans are deeply divided in their opinion of the Pinochet legacy, with approximately a third of the country viewing him as a hero, another third viewing him as a villain and the rest voicing ambiguous opinions to pollsters.
A senior Spanish judicial official said Saturday that Judge Baltasar Garzon issued the international arrest warrant against Pinochet on Friday after Interpol warned that the former dictator was about to be released from the hospital and would probably leave London.
A British Foreign Office spokesman, who declined to be identified by name, said the general's arrest was ``a judicial matter, one for the police and the magistrates.''
But he said ``one point that does fall to us, he does not have diplomatic immunity in this country.''
The spokesman declined any further comment.
An official who spoke on condition of anonymity said Pinochet had been arrested ``at the direct, specific request of the Spanish authorities.''
Spanish lawyers said the request for Pinochet's extradition had been sent to Scotland Yard through Interpol.
The request was based on the European Convention on Terrorism, which requires members to help one another in matters related to terrorism.
The initial warrant is based on a single case of the kidnapping and disappearance in 1976 of a Chilean leftist leader, Edgaro Henriquez, 35.
nn 	The Spanish judicial official said that Garzon is planning on Monday to send to British authorities the names of 78 other people of various nationalities who were also kidnapped in Chile and taken to Argentina where they disappeared between 1976 and 1983.
He will also seek the general's extradition to Spain.
Garzon has also demanded the extradition of various former Argentina junta rulers, but Argentina has refused to abide by warrants.
The focus of his investigation is the so-called Condor Plan, in which the military juntas of various Latin American countries allegedly collaborated to eliminate their enemies.
Both President Eduardo Frei of Chile and President Eduardo Menem of Argentina have resisted the Spanish legal motions, arguing that they infringe on their nations' sovereignty.
Amnesty International, the human rights group long critical of Pinochet, earlier this week urged the British government to assist the Spanish judges in their prosecution of the former dictator.
In a statement, the group said, ``This would be a clear manifestation of the British government's commitment to human rights.''
Human rights and international law experts expressed enthusiastic support Saturday for the British arrest, and said it could have wide implications.
Legal experts noted that since the Nuremberg trials after World War II, all countries theoretically have been obliged to take responsibility for crimes against humanity, thereby denying safe haven to promoters of international crimes like genocide.
However, suspected war criminals, once granted amnesties in their own countries, have usually been safe from prosecution when they traveled abroad.
Juan Garces, a Spanish lawyer representing 4,000 victims of the Pinochet regime, said the case against the general was based on international legal principles that there is no immunity for those responsible for crimes against humanity, even if they served as heads of state.
Diane Orentlicher, a law professor and director of the War Crimes Research Office at American University in Washington, said the British and Spanish actions put ``teeth into the legal principle'' that abusers of human rights are international criminals.
``The central point of all of this is that crimes against humanity transcend the concerns of the countries where the abuses are committed,'' she said.
``In theory, there should be no safe haven for world class criminals, but the central problem has been the enforcement of the law depends on the mobilization of the world's consciousness.''
Chile said on Saturday that it would file a formal protest.
``What we must do is make clear that Mr. Pinochet is a senator who travels with a diplomatic passport,'' said Mario Artaza, Chile's ambassador to London, in a radio interview Saturday.
Artaza added that Pinochet would not be able testify any time soon because he was recuperating from painful surgery.
Chilean officials who served in the Pinochet government have so far been left virtually untouched for their alleged crimes because the armed forces still command broad political influence.
In neighboring Argentina, several military officials served prison sentences in the 1980s, but they were released under amnesty laws enacted in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
However, retired Gen. Jorge Videla, who led one of the Argentine juntas that ruled while Pinochet was in power in Chile, is currently under house arrest as a judge investigates his alleged role in kidnapping newborn children of political prisoners so they might be adopted by military families.
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator arrested here at the request of a Spanish judge, remained sequestered under police guard Sunday, awaiting a potentially devastating court hearing to weigh his extradition on charges of genocide, terrorism and murder.
British officials have not said where Pinochet is, but scores of Chilean emigres gathered Sunday outside the upscale London Clinic where the 82-year-old general underwent back surgery Oct. 9.
The demonstrators jubilantly demanded Pinochet's extradition to Spain and held up photographs of some of the ``disappeared'' among the 3,000 people shot or abducted during his 17-year dictatorship, from 1973 to 1990.
Pinochet's detention late Friday has left Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor government seemingly embarrassed by the diplomatic implications of an arrest that has enraged the government of Chile _ which Britain regards as an ally _ and confronted European officials with uncomfortable implications for their handling of human rights violators from closer to home.
``What goes for Gen. Pinochet also goes for all the Mladics and Karadzics who are still in hiding and will be, one day or another, arrested and judged for their crimes,'' said Jacques Poos, the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, referring to the Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, Bosnian Serb leaders indicted on war crimes charges by the United Nations War Crime Tribunal in The Hague.
Both have consistently eluded arrest.
Britain, however, seemed uncomfortable about turning the general's detention into any new crusade.
Neither Blair nor Foreign Secretary Robin Cook made public statements about the arrest, sheltering behind official statements that it was purely a ``judicial matter.''
The arrest has reopened a traditional divide between Labor and the opposition Tories who, while in office until 1997, regularly allowed Pinochet to enter Britain without fanfare either for medical treatment or to pursue arms deals with British defense contractors.
Blair's government had been under strong pressure from Labor supporters and human rights groups to display its public commitment to ethical foreign policies by acting against Pinochet.
Word of his presence here produced an outcry in newspapers generally supportive of Labor and among Labor legislators.
Indeed, Trade Minister Peter Mandelson termed Pinochet a ``brutal dictator'' in a television interview Sunday and said his claim of diplomatic immunity against arrest ``for most people in this country would be pretty gut-wrenching stuff.''
But Michael Howard, a former Tory Interior Minister who took no action during Pinochet's earlier visits, said the arrest reflected the behavior of ``a very arrogant government'' that may be ``displaying its utter contempt for our legal system and for the rule of law'' to appease a political constituency.
Pinochet was placed under arrest after a senior Spanish judge, Baltasar Garzon, sent a request to detain him in connection with possible extradition hearings.
The warrant on which he was arrested alleges that Pinochet ``did murder Spanish citizens in Chile within the jurisdiction of the government of Spain,'' and was guilty of ``crimes of genocide and terrorism that includes murder.''
Garzon and a Spanish colleague, Judge Manuel Garcia Castellon, are expected to travel to London to question him, possibly in the next few days.
Chile has protested the arrest, insisting that, as a senator for life, Pinochet enjoyed diplomatic immunity under his diplomatic passport.
But, said Alun Michael, a senior official in the Home Office, ``a diplomatic passport does not, of course, guarantee diplomatic immunity.''
British officials deny that the detention was politically inspired.
Michael said Sunday that ``there has been no intervention which has been inappropriate at all.''
Under British law, the authorities must decide within 40 days whether to proceed with extradition.
The first step is a magistrates' court hearing where Pinochet's accusers set out their reasons for extradition.
No date for this hearing has been set.
Then, Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, must decide whether to order the extradition.
A stubbornly independent judge who more than once has challenged the Spanish government, Baltasar Garzon was ridiculed when he first set out to pursue the most notorious right-wing generals in South America for human rights crimes committed in the 1970s and '80s, offenses for which they had already been granted amnesty at home.
Now, after Garzon succeeded in getting Scotland Yard to arrest Chile's former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the Spanish magistrate has suddenly moved closer to creating an important legal precedent, one that could make the retirement of former dictators decidedly uncomfortable.
While this is certainly his most spectacular strike, the Madrid judge has long been at the center of controversy.
Even before taking on the cases against former military rulers in Argentina as well as Chile, he had earned a high profile in Spain by investigating some of the country's most explosive issues, among them drug trafficking, Basque terrorism and government corruption.
The judge, despite his professorial look, lives a tense life and has said that he had to grow used to living with death threats.
He moves around with bodyguards and works under tight security in the offices of the Madrid special criminal tribunal, known as the National Court.
His critics have often accused him of self-promotion because he takes on major cases and frequently appears on the front pages of newspapers.
But Garzon, in a recent interview, responded that he is determined to expose crime in high places too easily overlooked and that in talking to the media he helps to prevent sensitive cases from being covered up.
His involvement with South America began in 1996 when he opened a criminal investigation after several Spanish legal associations asked him to look into the torture, disappearance and killing of Spanish citizens in Argentina during that country's military rule from 1976 to 1983.
Garzon, who works as an investigating magistrate rather than a judge on the bench, took more than five months to conclude that a Spanish court could have jurisdiction in the case.
He argued that, under Spanish and international law, specifically under the Geneva Conventions, serious crimes involving human rights can be tried anywhere and are not subject to any time limit.
Garzon felt encouraged not only by support from international legal scholars and a U.N. committee, but also by the new efforts of Western powers to insure trials and punishment for those responsible for grave human rights violations, including genocide, in Rwanda and the Balkans.
Soon, he brought charges against 110 former and active military and police officers in Argentina and issued international arrest warrants against at least 11 senior Argentine military officers, including a former president, Gen. Leopoldo Galtieri.
That meant countries that are part of the Interpol agreement would have to arrest the officers if they traveled outside Argentina.
Following the case against Argentina's security forces, another judge serving in the same court as Garzon opened an investigation into the torture and killing of Spaniards in Chile during the 17-year Pinochet dictatorship that ended in 1990.
Garzon is now involved in both countries, and the cases have widened to embrace not just the killing of Spaniards but victims of other nationalities.
Since the case against Pinochet began at Madrid's National Court, the United States has agreed to provide the Spanish judges with documents related to human rights violations under the Pinochet regime.
The Madrid court has charged Pinochet and other members of the Chilean high command with crimes against humanity, including genocide and terrorism, involving the deaths of more than 4,000 people.
Both extraterritorial investigations have drawn scorn from the civilian governments in Argentina and Chile, which have argued that the accused military officers have all benefited from amnesties and that no foreign judge can alter that.
Spain's conservative prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar, has also told Buenos Aires and Santiago that he disapproves of the investigations, but that he cannot stop them.
He and other government officials have complained that the judge's activities are complicating their diplomatic relations and risk affecting Madrid's current strategy of expanding its business investments in Argentina and Chile.
But the judges have continued to press forward.
On Oct. 14, learning that Pinochet had entered Britain for medical treatment, Garzon asked British judicial authorities to hold the former dictator until Spanish investigators could interrogate him about a series of crimes, particularly those committed under a so-called Operation Condor in which Argentina and Chile cooperated in torturing and killing several hundred of their political opponents.
British authorities informed Garzon that Pinochet would be released from the hospital over the weekend and that they could not legally detain him.
Garzon then issued an arrest warrant against Pinochet, specifically linking him to the case of a Chilean citizen, Edgardo Henriquez, who in April 1976 was kidnapped and tortured in Argentina and soon after handed over to the Chilean secret police, then under Pinochet's command.
He has since been missing.
On Monday, Garzon will reportedly broaden the arrest warrant by adding the names of close to 80 additional victims, who were also kidnapped in Argentina and handed over to the Chilean secret police as part of Operation Condor.
A lawyer familiar with the proceedings said Garzon will also formalize his request that Britain extradite Pinochet to Spain.
However, before it can be transmitted to British authorities, the extradition request must first be accepted by Spain's Ministry of Justice and then approved by Aznar and his cabinet.
Aznar, who is known to favor turning down the request, has given no clear indication yet of the outcome.
Perhaps as a sign of how much Chileans wish to forget their years of polarized politics and repression under Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the immediate popular response here to the sensational news of his arrest in London has been remarkable for its moderation.
About 200 supporters of the retired dictator gathered at the residence of the British ambassador on Saturday evening to protest the arrest, some throwing fruit and eggs at the building.
Some demonstrators burned a British flag in front of the nearby residence of the Spanish ambassador before the police arrived in a truck with water cannon, at which point the protesters obediently withdrew.
Chilean television news repeatedly showed the same videotape of a leftist counterdemonstrator in heated discussions with the protesting Pinochet supporters before he was arrested and carried kicking and screaming into a police van.
But in a display of uncensored political debate that would have been unthinkable only a decade ago under the general's rule, television broadcasts also showed myriad reactions to the arrest from political figures ranging from Communist Party leaders to rightist retired generals.
Many Chileans still harbor bitter memories of Pinochet's dictatorial ways, including the deaths and disappearances of more than 3,000 people in the 17 years that followed his violent overthrow of the elected Socialist government of President Salvador Allende in 1973.
But most political analysts say a large majority wants to put the era of radical politics and repression behind it, a trend equally apparent in neighboring Argentina and Brazil, which also went through periods of rule by military juntas.
President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, in Portugal for a summit meeting of Iberian and Latin American leaders, charged that Britain was breaking international law, saying that Pinochet, now an unelected senator for life, carried a diplomatic passport giving him legal immunity.
Frei leads a governing coalition that includes Christian Democrats and Socialists, and his strong defense of the general's rights was only one of a string of similar comments from civilian politicians who have spent most of their political careers opposing Pinochet.
Only one presidential candidate in next year's elections expressed support for the Spanish and British actions, and that was Gladys Marin of the Communist Party.
``I couldn't be more happy,'' she told local television.
``This government has been unwilling to bring this genocidal criminal to justice over the last eight years, so it is up to the Spanish to do it.''
The leading leftist candidate, Ricardo Lagos of the Socialist Party, was far more cautious.
Lagos gently scolded Pinochet for not anticipating his arrest abroad but said he did want to get involved in a judicial matter.
Effectively, Lagos was walking a tight line in order to deflect conservatives' claims that his election would return Chile to the political and economic turbulence of Allende's abbreviated rule.
The two leading conservative candidates predictably criticized the arrest, and some rightist politicians urged the government to break relations with London in protest.
Supporters of Pinochet pledged to mobilize street demonstrations demanding his release, while the Communist Party and human rights groups promised marches supporting the British action and a possible Spanish prosecution for alleged crimes against humanity.
But Sunday was just another Sunday for most Chileans, who packed Santiago's parks on a splendidly sunny spring day.
A few lightly armed police officers directed traffic away from the British and Spanish embassies, and flimsy three-feet high wire fences were placed around the buildings.
Attempting to explain the calm, Mireya Garcia, secretary general of the Group of the Families of the Detained and Disappeared, said: ``After 25 years of absolute impunity for violators of human rights, it takes a while for the people to absorb this news and understand its importance and dimensions.''
For all the normalcy, the arrest of Pinochet opened a revealing window into a new Chilean society, one run by democratically elected civilians side-by-side with a still influential military.
President Fidel Castro of Cuba, who for years was portrayed as the devil incarnate in the Chilean media, was shown on television in a very human light, reacting to the arrest with confused amusement.
News clips of Chilean exiles celebrating the arrest received prominent play.
Their shouts of ``murderer'' and posters of the former dictator bearing the word ``Wanted'' were broadcast on the same show that included an interview with Augusto Pinochet Hiriart, Pinochet's son.
``Countries have lost wars and committed real genocide,'' he said, ``but that is not what happened here.''
The arrest of Gen. Augusto Pinochet shows the growing significance of international human-rights law, suggesting that officials accused of atrocities have fewer places to hide these days, even if they are carrying diplomatic passports, legal scholars say.
Pinochet, who ruled Chile as a military dictator from 1973 to 1990, was granted amnesty in his homeland but was arrested on Friday in London at the request of Spanish authorities, who want him extradited to Spain.
A growing body of international law has in the last 10 years made it somewhat easier to reach across borders and apprehend suspects accused of torture, genocide and other ``crimes against humanity.''
A lawyer in Washington who represents victims of the Pinochet administration, Samuel Buffone, said, ``What is really innovative and important here is that a Spanish court is looking at international acts of terrorism, systemic human-rights abuses and genocide, and is asserting jurisdiction on that basis.''
The Spanish authorities contend that Pinochet may have committed crimes against Spanish citizens in Chile.
They said the European Convention on Terrorism and other treaties required Britain to extradite Pinochet.
``The lesson here is that terrorists will have no safe haven and are the modern-day equivalent of pirates,'' Buffone said.
``Anywhere they are found on the high seas they will be nabbed and prosecuted.''
Thomas Buergenthal, a professor of international law at George Washington University here, expressed doubts that Pinochet was entitled to diplomatic immunity, even though he has a diplomatic passport.
``The fact that he wasn't accredited to Britain and was not in transit to a diplomatic post,'' Buergenthal said, ``means that Britain doesn't have to give him diplomatic immunity, unless there was some prior arrangement to do so.''
The case raises many complex legal questions.
For example, does Pinochet have any immunity because of his status as a former head of state or because of his current status as a ``senator for life'' in Chile?
Chile granted him amnesty, but are other countries required to honor that amnesty?
Could Spain try Pinochet for his actions in Chile?
Under the Chilean Constitution, adopted while he was in power, Pinochet is immune from prosecution there.
Professor Lori Damrosch, an expert on international law at Columbia University, said: ``That doesn't carry any weight outside Chile.
It's not binding on any other country.
All these ex-dictators must have an understanding that they are somewhat at risk when they leave their own countries.''
The ``personal inviolability'' of diplomats is a venerable privilege that can be traced from the protection accorded to wartime emissaries in ancient Greece.
The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 says, ``The purpose of such privileges and immunities is not to benefit individuals, but to ensure the efficient performance of the functions of diplomatic missions.''
Thus, legal scholars say, diplomatic immunity was not created to insulate people against prosecution for crimes against humanity or other atrocities.
In recent years courts have shown an increased willingness to try criminal and civil cases involving contentions that foreigners committed torture, genocide or war crimes.
Professor Michael Reisman of Yale said: ``In the past a head of state would have been given broad immunity for acts committed while he was head of state.
But international law has moved steadily in the direction of assigning personal responsibility to such officials for grave violations of human rights or the law of war.''
Spain's contention that it has the authority to interrogate and try Pinochet is similar to the United States' argument that it can try hijackers and terrorists for crimes committed against American citizens abroad.
Professor Jonathan Charney of the Vanderbilt Law School, editor of The American Journal of International Law, noted that Pinochet is accused of genocide, torture, and cruel and unusual punishment.
``These are considered universal crimes,'' he said.
A U.S. federal court returned a 238-count indictment against Saudi exile Osama  bin Laden for conspiring to bomb two U.S. embassies in Africa and committing other  acts of terrorism.
Evidence was compiled mainly from determination of links to bin  Laden by suspects indicted in connection with the Embassy attacks as well as other  previous terrorist activities.
At the urging of the U.S., Saudi Arabian officials  attempted to persuade the Taliban's leader to deport in Laden from Afghanistan,  but he refused.
Pakistani Muslim militants threaten retaliation if their "hero" is  arrested.
The U.S. is offering a $5 million reward for information leading to his  arrest.
US prosecutors charged bin Laden with conspiring to bomb US embassies and terrorism against Americans abroad.
Prosecutors offered $5 million rewards for leads to bin Laden and military commander Muhammad Atef.
Information came from an informant.
Brooklyn terrorists obtained weapons through a man later bin Laden's  secretary.
A bombing conspirator asked bin Laden for a mission.
Saudis pressured Taliban to deport bin Laden.
Taliban considered trying him themselves.
The US asked Pakistan and bin Laden's family for help.
Pakistani Islamic militants called bin Laden a hero and threatened retaliation if he was arrested.
Germany feared reprisals for a jailed bin Laden aide and carried out raids following rumored terrorism against the US embassy.
Osama bin Laden, living in Afghanistan, was indicted in New York on November 3,  1998 on 238 counts, including conspiracy to bomb the U.S. embassies in Tanzania  and Kenya, committing acts of terrorism against Americans abroad, and leading a  vast terror conspiracy.
Two of the accused bombers were directly linked to bin  Laden; Al Owahali asked him for a "mission" in 1996 and el Hage was his aide in  both the U.S. and Africa.
A refuge center in Brooklyn was also directly linked  to bin Laden and his violence.
Islamic militants declared him a hero and  threatened revenge.
Saudi Arabia attempted to placate the U.S. and Afghanistan.
Three months after the bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa, a U.S court  indicted Saudi businessman Osama bin Laden for the attacks.
Bin Laden is possibly  in Afghanistan, protected by the Taliban, which has refused a Saudi request to  expel him.
Reportedly, however, the Taliban might try him for the earlier bombing  of the American barracks in Dhahran.
Three suspects jailed in Manhattan for the  embassy bombings are allegedly associated with bin Laden or the network of  anti-U.S. militants that support his objectives.
Recently, the State Department  admitted receiving an intelligence report forewarning of the Nairobi embassy  attack.
German police raided several locations near Bonn after receiving word of a terrorist threat against the U.S. Embassy, but no evidence of a planned attack was found, officials said Wednesday.
Police, including agents of an elite anti-terrorist unit, checked several suspects during raids in an industrial zone and other sites Tuesday, but no arrests were made, said Eva Schuebel, spokeswoman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office in Karlsruhe.
The agency said it had received ``credible information'' that Middle East terrorists had stockpiled arms and explosives at the sites, but none were found.
The agency's investigation is continuing, Schuebel said.
``For now, we can no longer speak of an immediate threat to the U.S. Embassy,'' she said.
The embassy had no comment.
Security was tightened at U.S. installations worldwide after the Aug. 7 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
Saudi dissident Osama Bin Laden is wanted by U.S. officials for those attacks.
A suspected top aide of bin Laden, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, is jailed in Germany pending a U.S. extradition request, raising concern about reprisals on German soil.
U.S. authorities charge Salim helped finance, train and arm members of a terrorist organization, including the alleged bombers of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
In September, German police stepped up security at the U.S. consulate in Hamburg after receiving a tip about a possible threat.
&UR; (tc-pfg-dkt)
An Islamic militant group on Thursday threatened to retaliate if Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden is arrested, and described Washington's No. 1 enemy as a ``hero'' to Muslims worldwide.
Bin Laden, believed to be in Afghanistan, and a top aide were indicted Wednesday by a U.S. District Court in the U.S. embassy bombings in Africa and are accused of conspiring to kill Americans outside the United States.
The State Department also announced a reward of up to dlrs 5 million for bin Laden's capture.
``It is a challenge to the entire Muslim world ... Bin Laden is a hero of the Muslim world,'' said Omar Warsi, a leader of Pakistan's militant Sunni Muslim group, Sipah-e-Sahaba, or Guardians of the Friends of the Prophet.
``If anything happens to him, America will be responsible.''
Many Sipah-e-Sahaba followers are fighting in neighboring Afghanistan alongside the Taliban army, which rules 90 percent of Afghanistan and has imposed a strict version of Islamic law in those areas.
Warsi's group is well-armed with everything from machine guns to rocket launchers.
In Pakistan, it has been blamed in killings of hundreds of Shiite Muslims, whom the group reviles as non-Muslims based on a centuries-old dispute over who was the proper successor to the Prophet Mohammed.
Harakat-ul-Ansar, a Pakistan-based organization labeled a terrorist group by the United States, said, however, that foreigners in Pakistan ``have nothing to fear from us.''
Harakat is considered a strong supporter of bin Laden, and several Harakat followers were killed in the U.S. missile attack on alleged bin Laden terror sites in Afghanistan.
``What the United States does is their business,'' said Abdul Bassit, a Harakat follower.
He added, however, that the United States should know bin Laden ``is a good Muslim, and all the Muslim world thinks he is a good Muslim.''
The Taliban say bin Laden is a respected guest who will not be extradited.
However, they have set up a judicial inquiry to accept evidence of bin Laden's involvement in terrorist activity and have promised to prosecute him if the evidence warrants it.
Washington blames bin Laden's group, al Qaeda, for the Aug. 7 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people, including 12 Americans, and injured an estimated 5,000 people.
The United States retaliated Aug. 20, firing Tomahawk cruise missiles at suspected bin Laden training camps in eastern Afghanistan.
At least 26 people were killed, but damage to the area was not considered extensive.
The U.S. Embassy in Pakistan evacuated nonessential staff and family members prior to the August bombing of Afghanistan, fearing retaliation.
While some embassy workers are back, their dependents and about 30 percent of the staff have not been allowed to return.
Embassy officials said no fresh security warnings followed Wednesday's indictment.
Security measures already in place include cement barricades blocking the road leading to the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad and razor-sharp barbed wire topping the brick-walled compound.
In the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar, on the border with Afghanistan, the U.S. consulate is surrounded by barbed wire and protected by an armored personnel carrier and dozens of armed police.
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said Wednesday that one of the men accused of conspiring to bomb the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August had met earlier with Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind of the attacks, and ``asked him for a mission.''
The reported meeting between bin Laden and the accused man, Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al'Owhali, which had not previously been described, is the strongest allegation offered so far to link bin Laden to the attacks, in which more than 250 people died.
The meeting, which prosecutors said took place in 1996, is reported in a new 48-page indictment of Al-'Owhali and three others that a federal grand jury in Manhattan returned Wednesday.
It shows how prosecutors are continuing to build the circumstantial case that bin Laden, a Saudi businessman in exile, was behind the embassy bombings and other attacks against Americans stationed abroad in the 1990s.
The prosecutors did not indicate bin Laden's response to the offer; he is not charged in the new indictment.
The indictment does not indicate whether prosecutors have any evidence that bin Laden directly ordered the bombings, or whether they may argue that he inspired a group of followers to carry out the attacks.
Bin Ladin has called for attacks on U.S. and other Western interests.
Nonetheless, in issuing the new charges against men suspected of being bin Laden's associates, the government also declared more concretely than previously that bin Laden has been a major backer of terrorism groups worldwide.
Its list of terrorist groups includes Al Jihad in Egypt and the Islamic Group, which is led by Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who was convicted in 1996 in the plot to blow up landmarks in New York City.
The indictment asserted that bin Laden's organization, Al Qaeda, worked on its own and through Al Jihad, Islamic Group and others, which ``operated under its umbrella.''
The authorities also gave their first account of what they called bin Laden's network of businesses and front companies in Sudan that he allegedly used to raise money to support terrorism and to provide cover for the acquisition of explosives, weapons and chemicals, and the travel of his associates.
The Taliban movement in Afghanistan might consider putting Osama bin Laden on trial for a 1996 bomb attack that killed 19 American airmen in Saudi Arabia, a leading Saudi-owned newspaper reported Wednesday.
Bin Laden, the Saudi-born Islamic militant who lives in Afghanistan, has long been suspected of involvement in that and other attacks on Americans, including the Aug. 7 bombings of two U.S. Embassies in Africa.
He has been indicted in the United States, charged with terrorist acts committed before the embassy bombings.
But efforts to bring bin Laden to justice have been hamstrung by the fact that the Taliban, which control most of Afghanistan, is a militant Islamic movement whose leaders who have said they will not hand him over to the United States or to anyone else.
The report, in the London-based newspaper Al Hayat, that the Taliban might consider trying bin Laden themselves could not be independently confirmed.
A senior Taliban diplomat reached by telephone in Pakistan dismissed it as ``baseless.''
But Al Hayat is generally a reliable source on matters involving the Saudi government, and it reported that the Taliban had communicated the offer to Saudi Arabia as a good-will gesture.
If it is true, the report would suggest that the Taliban might at least be reconsidering their position on bin Laden, which has deeply complicated its relations with the West and with Saudi Arabia, one of only three countries in the world to recognize the militant movement as Afghanistan's legitimate government.
Saudi Arabia has never charged bin Laden or anyone else in the 1996 bombing, and any specific American accusations linking bin Laden to that attack have been spelled out only in a sealed indictment.
But U.S. officials have said they have learned enough about the bombing, of an American military compound in the eastern Saudi city of Dhahran, to regard bin Laden as a prime suspect.
Saudi Arabia, which stripped bin Laden of his citizenship in 1994 because of his militant activities, has turned up pressure against Afghanistan in a clear show of protest at the sanctuary provided there to him.
Last month, it expelled the Afghan charge d'affaires and recalled its own top envoy from Kabul, the Afghan capital, saying that the moves were ``in keeping with national interest.''
&QL;
In a rare public statement about the August bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa, the FBI said Friday that two vehicles had been used in the attack on the embassy here.
The FBI also indicated that it had learned the identities of new suspects in the blast here, and that they are at large.
They were in a Suzuki Samurai, one of the two vehicles identified Friday, investigators said.
Two vehicles were also used in the bombing of the embassy in Nairobi, according to indictments that have been handed down.
One carried the bomb, the other guided the first vehicle through the streets of Nairobi to the embassy.
Investigators are pursuing the theory that the modus operandi was the same here.
One of the vehicles used in the blast here was an Atlas refrigeration truck made by Nissan, with a silver-colored cargo box and white or beige cab, the FBI and the Tanzania Criminal Investigation Division said at a news conference Friday afternoon.
This was the vehicle that investigators now believe carried the bomb, which killed 11 people and wounded at least 86.
The driver of the vehicle, who has not been identified, died in the attack, according to investigators.
The simultaneous blast in Nairobi killed more than 250, including 12 Americans.
Three people have been indicted in New York in connection with the attacks, which the Clinton administration has charged were masterminded by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile who lives in Afghanistan.
Friday's development should put to rest earlier reports that a water tanker, which regularly delivered water to the embassy here, had carried the bomb, an investigator said.
The refrigeration truck followed the water tanker into the compound, according to a U.S. security official.
It is not known how the refrigeration truck, a 1987 Nissan, penetrated the embassy compound here without being adequately searched.
At Friday's news conference, FBI Agent Ken Maxwell read a brief statement and declined to take any questions.
The head of Tanzania's Criminal Investigation Division, Adadi Rajabu, read a similar statement in Swahili, and also declined to take questions.
The second vehicle was a Suzuki Samurai, a small jeep popular in East Africa.
It had been ``utilized by suspects thus far identified,'' Maxwell said.
He did not say how it had been used or who the suspects were.
Tanzania has charged two men in connection with the bombing, Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed and Rashid Saleh Hemed.
For reasons that are not clear, the Clinton administration has not sought to extradite either of these men, even though it has brought other suspects back to the United States, where they have been indicted.
A diplomat here said the United States did not consider the evidence against Ahmed to be very strong.
Since the bombings, the FBI and their counterparts here and in Kenya have made few public statements.
Friday's news conference was for the purpose of issuing an appeal to the Tanzanian public to come forth with any information about the vehicles, an indication that while the investigators feel they have made ``a significant amount of progress,'' as Maxwell said Friday, they are also stymied.
Urged on by the Clinton administration, Saudi Arabia's top intelligence official met privately with the leader of the Taliban in late September to try to persuade Afghanistan to deport Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile suspected of masterminding the August bombings of two American embassies in East Africa, according to U.S. and Arab officials.
Just weeks after the United States launched a cruise-missile strike against bin Laden's terrorist training camps in Afghanistan, Prince Turki bin Faisal, chief of Saudi intelligence, sat down with Mullah Mohammed Omar, leader of the Taliban's Supreme Council, and asked him to end his protection for bin Laden and hand him over, Arab officials said.
The Taliban, the Islamic movement that controls most of Afghanistan, refused.
Their recalcitrance in the face of Turki's personal request finally prompted Saudi Arabia, one of the Taliban's most important financial sponsors and allies, to downgrade its diplomatic ties with the group.
American officials say they are supporting diplomatic efforts to persuade the Taliban to deport bin Laden.
``Achieving the expulsion of bin Laden and bringing him to justice is something we are actively pursuing,'' said a State Department official.
In their effort to persuade Afghanistan to deport bin Laden, State Department officials also have spoken to Taliban representatives themselves and have sought the intercession of Pakistan, the only other major ally of Afghanistan in the region.
They have also, said an Arab official, talked to members of bin Laden's family in Saudi Arabia.
If Afghanistan does turn over bin Laden to Saudi Arabia, it is possible that bin Laden might be tried there, rather than in the United States.
If he were to be handed over to the Saudis and brought back to Saudi Arabia, one Arab official said, he could face swift execution.
Administration officials say they want him to face trial in the United States.
They say they asked the Saudis to urge the Taliban only to deport bin Laden.
Senior U.S. officials said they were not negotiating with the Taliban, but simply repeating the message that they should get rid of bin Laden.
``We've certainly urged, in public and private, all those who have influence with the Taliban, that it is our strong view bin Laden should be expelled and brought to justice,'' a White House spokesman said.
``We will certainly continue our multi-pronged strategy of combating bin Laden's network.''
Clinton administration officials said the new diplomatic effort did not preclude further military action against bin Laden and his terrorist network.
Officials said the Aug. 20 cruise missile attack was intended to break up the network and perhaps kill bin Laden.
Since then, the FBI and other law-enforcement and intelligence agencies say they are continuing to work with other nations to arrest as many of bin Laden's operatives as possible.
Bin Laden already faces criminal charges in the United States under a sealed indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in New York.
Pressing the Taliban is part of a broad effort to damage the bin Laden network, officials say.
``Our tactics may have changed, but our strategy of putting him out of action remains the same,'' said a senior American official.
``This is another way of trying to deal with the problem.''
But critics outside of government say it also suggests ambivalence among administration officials over how best to deal with the radical Islamic group that now controls most of Afghanistan.
``There has been a gap between our interests in Afghanistan and the level of our attention to the need for a strategy,'' said Zalmay Khalilzad, an Afghan expert at Rand Corp. ``A rogue state could emerge there, so we either need to pay attention now, or later.''
The Saudi role in trying to extricate bin Laden from Afghanistan has been a murky one, complicated by Islamic politics and the longstanding alliance between the Saudis and the Taliban.
But the Saudi request to the Taliban for bin Laden represents a significant shift.
Previously, the Saudis had made it clear that they did not want bin Laden brought back to Saudi Arabia, for fear that he could be a martyr figure to Saudi dissidents.
More broadly, U.S. officials say they have been frustrated by the Saudis' refusal to cooperate fully on terrorism investigations in the past, especially in the case of the 1996 bombing of the American military barracks at Khobar Towers in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
But now, what administration officials say is the clear evidence of his involvement in the East African bombings, as well as a growing belief among Saudi officials that bin Laden poses a threat to their government, seems to have prompted a change in their strategy.
And, while he is not currently under indictment for any crimes in Saudi Arabia, Arab and U.S officials now say they have evidence linking him to the 1995 car bombing of a military facility in Riyadh in which American servicemen were killed.
Bin Laden, who was stripped of his Saudi citizenship in 1994, would face ``swift'' action if he were brought back to Saudi Arabia, said one Arab official.
Now, even bin Laden's wealthy Saudi family is cooperating with the United States and Saudi Arabia on how to bring him to heel, the Arab official said.
The bin Laden family made a fortune in the construction industry.
``U.S. officials, after Saudi Arabia blessed it, have talked to members of the bin Laden family,'' the Arab official said.
After Taliban officials repeatedly said they would consider turning over bin Laden if they were presented with evidence against him, Arab officials familiar with the matter say that Prince Turki presented evidence to the Taliban of bin Laden's involvement in terrorism, but it made no difference.
Evidence was also presented by Bill Richardson, former chief delegate to the United Nations, when he visited Afghanistan earlier this year.
But Clinton administration officials, fearing that his return to Saudi Arabia could lead to trouble for the Saudi regime, stress they do not want the Saudis to have bin Laden brought back to their country.
And they note that the United States does not have an extradition treaty with Saudi Arabia.
The Clinton administration is still determined to have bin Laden put on trial in the United States, they said.
``We don't have a policy on whether we would accept bin Laden being brought to justice in a third country, we haven't crossed that bridge yet,'' one administration official said.
``But Saudi Arabia would not be the place where we would want him to go.''
Abdul Hakeem Mujahid, the Taliban's ambassador designate to the United Nations, confirmed in an interview that his government's discussions with Turki over bin Laden had been ``disappointing,'' but argued that Afghanistan's unwillingness to oust its ``guest'' would not damage long-term relations between Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia.
He added that his government would be willing to try bin Laden in Islamic court in Afghanistan if there was ``solid'' evidence against him.
Several months after the bombing of the World Trade Center in February 1993, one of the suspects tried to bargain with federal prosecutors in New York, offering inside information about the bomb plot in exchange for a lighter sentence.
The deal never materialized, and the defendant was eventually found guilty and sentenced to life in prison.
But the details he offered in that secret meeting about his Brooklyn-based circle of Arab militants are resonating today in another terrorism case.
The accused bomber told prosecutors that he had twice turned to a Texas acquaintance named Wadih el Hage to buy weapons for his Brooklyn associates.
Last month, el Hage was arrested on charges of being part of the Osama bin Laden terror network that is suspected of the bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania on Aug. 7.
It is not clear how federal investigators followed up the tip about el Hage that they received in 1993.
But after the embassy bombings, it is evident that they are ascribing new significance to el Hage's contacts with the Brooklyn militants who figured not only in the World Trade Center case, but also in the assassination of Rabbi Meir Kahane in 1990 and a conspiracy to blow up the United Nations and other New York landmarks in 1993.
Indeed, the government recently asserted for the first time that the roots of bin Laden's organization could be traced, in part, to a sparsely furnished office on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn that was called Alkifah Refugee Center and had for many years been a gathering place for that same fringe group of terrorists.
Prosecutors have not said what role, if any, bin Laden is supposed to have played in the activities of Alkifah Center.
Nor have they said how the center, which has been closed for about five years, relates to his global campaign to attack Americans overseas.
But in the government's version so far, bin Laden's far-flung network is presented as a tapestry of personal relationships between men of different nationalities and backgrounds who share his determination to rid the Islamic world of American influence.
In the United States, prosecutors now suggest, such relationships evolved from Alkifah Refugee Center.
In the mid-1980s the strip of Arab restaurants and Islamic bookstores on Atlantic Avenue, between Third and Fourth streets, was the first port of call for many immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa.
Notices posted in the shops advertised jobs, rooms for rent and religious activities for Arabic-speaking newcomers.
Alkifah Center, in those years, was a neighborhood hub.
It started out as a desk in Al Farooq Mosque around 1986 and then moved into a small apartment in a building a few doors away at 566 Atlantic Ave., above what is now a perfume factory, with just enough room for a desk, a few chairs, a phone and a fax machine.
The center's stated purpose was to raise money and recruit fighters to help the U.S.-backed Afghan mujahedeen, who rebelled against the Communist government in Afghanistan after an invasion by the Soviet Union in 1979.
People in the neighborhood who remember Alkifah Center say it appeared to be a shoestring operation, although court papers suggest that tens of thousands of dollars flowed through its bank accounts in its heyday in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
It was this ramshackle office that the government says evolved into the American outpost of bin Laden's international terrorist organization.
The center was set up by Mustafa Shalabi, an Egyptian immigrant.
As his former neighbors recall him, Shalabi was infused with the same religious fervor for the Afghan cause that galvanized many young Muslims who regarded it as a holy war to liberate a Muslim country from Communist domination.
One of those who answered the call to fight in Afghanistan was Mahmud Abouhalima, who was active in militant Islamic movements in his native Egypt before moving to West Germany in 1981 and to New York four years later.
Abouhalima would later become a well-known figure in New York as one of the men accused in the World Trade Center bombing.
Shortly after his arrest in that case, he met with government investigators without his lawyer and provided a detailed account of Alkifah Refugee Center and its internecine rivalries.
He recounted his brief stint with the mujahedeen in Afghanistan and told of traveling with a Palestinian man he knew as Mohammed Odeh to Peshawar, in northern Pakistan, the staging area for the Afghan rebels.
Abouhalima said they had spent two and a half months in separate training camps, learning how to use AK-47 assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenade launchers.
Later, they joined a militia unit and fought against Soviet forces with the American-financed mujahedeen.
For reasons that remain unclear, prosecutors rebuffed Abouhalima's offer of cooperation.
But his mention of Odeh is intriguing in light of more recent events.
A Palestinian man with a similar name and background, Mohammed Saddiq Odeh, has been charged with driving the truck that delivered the bomb in the attack on the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.
He has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial in New York.
Federal officials declined to say whether the Odeh charged in the embassy attack this year is the same Palestinian whose name surfaced five years ago.
nn 	In his 1993 statement to investigators, Abouhalima made no mention of bin Laden, although bin Laden is known to have worked in Afghanistan and Pakistan during the war years distributing official Saudi aid money for the mujahedeen.
Not long after Abouhalima returned to New York in late 1988, the Afghan war began to wind down.
The Soviet Union withdrew the last of its troops in 1989.
Two years later, the United States agreed to stop supplying arms to fractious Afghan warlords, and Afghanistan descended into civil war.
Many of the Arab men who had gone to fight, including bin Laden, stayed on but turned their religious fury against secular Arab governments and, ultimately, the U.S. military presence in the Persian Gulf and in Africa.
The turmoil in postwar Afghanistan echoed in Brooklyn, where Shalabi kept Alkifah Center open.
With the arrival in Brooklyn in 1990 of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric who was later convicted of conspiring to blow up New York landmarks, Abouhalima said, the regulars at Alkifah began to quarrel over money, political direction and leadership.
It was around that time that Abouhalima said he had first met el Hage, a Lebanese-born naturalized American citizen, at an Islamic conference in Oklahoma City.
Just how close the two men became is not clear.
Abouhalima's lawyer in his World Trade Center trial, Hassen Ibn Abdellah, said, ``That case is over, and I know nothing of the government's information or their sources.''
But el Hage was familiar with several of the Arab immigrants associated with Alkifah Center, say prosecutors and the account that Abouhalima provided investigators.
A federal prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, said in court last month, for example, that el Hage had a relationship with El Sayyid A. Nosair, the Egyptian immigrant convicted on federal charges in slaying of Kahane.
He did not elaborate.
Abouhalima, who told investigators that he had been in charge of protecting Sheik Abdel Rahman during the cleric's stay in the United States, told investigators that he had gone at least twice to el Hage to buy guns.
Abouhalima said he obtained a 9-millimeter handgun from el Hage in 1990 for use by the cleric's bodyguards.
Abouhalima also told investigators that he later gave el Hage $4,000 to buy handguns and AK-47s to defend his associates from the Jewish Defense League in New York, an organization founded by Kahane.
Abouhalima said el Hage had been unable to obtain the weapons and returned most of the money.
The timing of the transaction was not made clear.
The government cited the weapons transaction in a court hearing last month to persuade a federal magistrate to deny bail to el Hage.
Fitzgerald, the prosecutor, said el Hage had acknowledged dealings with Abouhalima.
``The defendant has admitted that while in Texas he made efforts to obtain firearms for Mahmud Abouhalima,'' Fitzgerald said.
``His claim is that after purchasing the firearms, Mr. Abouhalima failed to pick them up.''
Abouhalima told investigators of other contacts with el Hage.
He said that el Hage called him from Texas in early 1991 and said Shalabi wanted him to come to New York to help resolve a conflict within Alkifah Center.
At the time, Shalabi's leadership was under fire from dissidents within his circle, including Abouhalima.
El Hage did come to New York.
A short time later, Shalabi was found slain in his Brooklyn apartment.
No one has been charged, and the crime remains unsolved.
Abouhalima said he and el Hage had met one more time in Al Farooq Mosque on Atlantic Avenue, a few doors from Alkifah Center.
The topic of discussion, he said, was Shalabi's troubles and his recent killing.
Prosecutors say that by 1994, el Hage moved his wife and children to Sudan, where neighbors said they knew him as the director of Africa Help, a private aid organization.
But the government said he was the private secretary to bin Laden, who by then had relocated from Afghanistan to Sudan.
Later that year, the government said, el Hage moved to Kenya, where he shared a house for a time with a man named Haroun Fazil and helped bin Laden set up some of his front companies in Africa.
Fazil is accused of playing a role in the August embassy bombings in Africa.
The government appears to have been tracking el Hage for at least a year before the embassy bombings.
In September of last year, he was pointedly questioned by federal agents investigating bin Laden's group.
El Hage, who moved back to the United States in 1997, has pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy to kill Americans and of lying to federal agents.
In court his lawyer, Bruce McIntyre, denied that his client had any connection to terrorist activities.
McIntyre could not be reached for further comment.
These days, Arab immigrants still congregate along the little strip of shops on Atlantic Avenue, where Arab food and novelties are sold alongside Islamic books.
A few thousand pray at Al Farooq Mosque at the main Friday prayers, but it no longer has a reputation as a hotbed of radical Islamic activity.
Most of the men who were drawn to Alkifah Center in its turbulent days have melted quietly back into their communities, say people in the neighborhood familiar with the center's history.
``In 1994 this mosque finally settled down,'' said Abdulhakim Ali Mohamed, the American-born religious scholar who became the imam, or leader, of the mosque three years ago.
No one is permitted to misuse the mosque to preach politics or hate, he added.
``If there's anything to say,'' Mohamed said, ``I'll say it.''
Nine months before the attack on the American Embassy here, U.S. intelligence officials received a detailed warning that Islamic radicals were plotting to blow up the building, according to Kenyan and American officials.
The warning forecast the Aug. 7 bombing in several particulars, the officials said.
It came from an Egyptian man who American officials now believe was involved in the simultaneous terrorist assaults on the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
The Egyptian, Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed, is now in jail in Tanzania, charged by local prosecutors with bombing the embassy there.
Since the bombings, the State Department has maintained that it received no specific warnings about threats to its embassies in East Africa.
But late on Thursday, a spokesman acknowledged that the CIA had sent the State Department two reports about Ahmed that prompted the embassy in Kenya to step up security for several weeks.
When no attack materialized, the embassy's precautions returned to normal.
No further steps were taken to improve the building's physical security.
Disclosure of the warning raises new questions about the State Department's protection of the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which did not meet the department's own minimum standards for security.
Until now, department officials have insisted that the embassies faced only a minimal threat from terrorists.
In the days after the bombings, the administration acknowledged that it had spurned requests from the American ambassador in Kenya, Prudence Bushnell, to move the entire embassy to a safer location.
The State Department would not say whether her cables mentioned Ahmed's warning.
According to American officials, Ahmed walked into the Nairobi embassy last November and told American intelligence officials that he knew of a group that was planning to detonate a bomb-laden truck inside the diplomats' underground parking garage.
In a separate interrogation by Kenyan intelligence officials, which was relayed to the Americans, Ahmed said he had already taken surveillance photos of the embassy for the attack, which was to involve several vehicles and stun grenades, Kenyan officials said.
Analysts at the CIA were unable to link Ahmed to any terrorist group but they nonetheless sent two reports last November about his statements to various government agencies.
The reports, American officials said, included several caveats.
The CIA said that a foreign intelligence service that cooperates with the agency believed that Ahmed was a fabricator of information.
In the reports, CIA analysts said that they could not rule out the possibility that Ahmed's threats were serious.
But they said that the threats might also be a sophisticated ploy by terrorists to observe and then counter the defenses the embassy would take against a possible attack.
After Ahmed appeared at the embassy, American officials alerted their Kenyan counterpars, who questioned the Egytian and then deported him.
Soon after, Ahmed made his way to Tanzania where, American officials now believe, he participated in the Aug. 7 bombing of the embassy that left 11 people dead.
The embassy attack in Kenya unfolded that same day much as Ahmed had said it would: A team of terrorists using two vehicles attempted to drive an explosives-packed truck into the parking garage.
One of the attackers tossed stun grenades to frighten off the locally hired security guards.
When an exiting car blocked their access to the garage, the attackers set off the bomb.
A Clinton administration official acknowledged that the embassy in Kenya had received a specific warning about an attack.
``It is embarrassing,'' this official said, quickly adding: ``It is tragic.''
Asked why the embassy took few steps to improve its security after the warning, he said: ``That's the 64-million-dollar question.''
Other officials defended the government's handling of the case, noting that American intelligence is deluged with warnings about terrorist plots, most of which prove groundless.
Thus far, Tanzanian authorities have not allowed Ahmed to be interviewed, and it was unclear what motivated him to alert authorities about a plot in which he appears to have played a role.
He told the Kenyans that in the past he had provided authorities with information about Islamic radicals because he wanted to see them arrested and rehabilitated rather than caught committing a crime for which they would be executed.
Ahmed has said he is innocent of the charges and his lawyer, Abdul Mwengela, said his client's information about the bombings stemmed solely from a conversation he had overheard the previous year in a Nairobi hotel.
A Tanzanian court refused to release Ahmed on bail this week and ruled that FBI agents would be permitted to interrogate him.
Tanzanian investigators suspect he was a central figure in the plot.
They are now examining whether Ahmed drove one of the vehicles used in the Dar es Salaam bombing and whether the 400 pounds of explosives used in both blasts came into Tanzania in a shipment of rice imported by one of his companies.
The Clinton administration has not sought to extradite Ahmed from Tanzania event though federal law permits the United States to bring charges against anyone who attempts or conspires to murder Americans anywhere in the world.
American prosecutors have already brought to the United States several other people accused of complicity in the bombings or of having ties to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile who American investigators have identified as the mastermind of the attacks.
The American Embassy in Dar es Salaam declined to answer any questions about Ahmed and why Washington was not seeking his extradition.
American diplomats in Tanzania, speaking on the condition of anonymity, suggested the prosecution was being left to the Tanzanians because there were no American victims.
A White House spokesman said the case was appropriately handled and that the United States had no plans to extradite Mustafa because the Tanzanians had expressed interest in trying him.
Several non-American diplomats in the region speculated that the United States is allowing the Tanzanians to try Ahmed because they fear his trial in America might bring to light his dealings with American authorities and other Western intelligence services.
</P>
A federal grand jury in Manhattan returned a 238-count indictment Wednesday charging the Saudi exile Osama bin Laden with conspiring to bomb two U.S. embassies in Africa in August and with committing acts of terrorism against Americans abroad.
Government officials immediately announced that they were offering two rewards of $5 million each for information leading to the arrest or conviction of bin Laden and another man charged Wednesday, Muhammad Atef, who was described as bin Laden's chief military commander.
Bin Laden is believed to be living in Afghanistan under the protection of the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalist movement that rules that country.
Atef's whereabouts are unknown.
Prosecutors also unsealed an earlier indictment, issued in June, that included similar but less detailed charges against bin Laden.
That indictment was returned before the embassy bombings and was the result of a two-year investigation into his activities in Somalia and Saudi Arabia, as well as reports that he had connections to a circle of Islamic militants in Brooklyn.
The new indictment, which supersedes the June action, accused bin Laden of leading a vast terrorist conspiracy from 1989 to the present, in which he was said to be working in concert with governments, including those of Sudan, Iraq and Iran, and terrorist groups, to build weapons and attack American military installations.
But the indictment gives few details of bin Laden's alleged involvement in the embassy attacks.
The indictment does not, for example, specify whether prosecutors have evidence that bin Laden gave direct orders to those who carried out the attacks.
Nothing in the document indicates why the original indictment was kept secret for months, but the secret charges were returned about the time that American officials were plotting a possible raid into Afghanistan to arrest bin Laden.
Mary Jo White, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said, ``It's very common to have sealed indictments when you're trying to apprehend those who are indicted.''
Both indictments offer new information about bin Laden's operations, including one deal he is said to have struck with Iraq to cooperate in the development of weapons in return for bin Laden's agreeing not to work against that country.
No details were given about whether the alleged deal with Iraq led to the development of actual weapons for bin Laden's group, which is called Al Qaeda.
The government said Wednesday that bin Laden's group had used private relief groups ``as conduits for transmitting funds'' for Al Qaeda.
The groups were not identified.
Prosecutors also said bin Laden's group had conducted internal investigations of its members and their associates, trying to detect who might be acting as informants, and had killed those who had been suspected of collaborating with ``enemies of the organization.''
The government indicated earlier that its knowledge of bin Laden's activities stemmed in part from the cooperation of one such informant, who it said Wednesday had worked for bin Laden, transporting weapons and explosives, helping to buy land for his training camps and assisting in running his finances.
While the June indictment against bin Laden suggested that the government had a great deal of knowledge of his dealings in the months before the embassy attacks, the new charges are an indication of how quickly the government has worked to solve the embassy attacks, which occurred just three months ago.
Ms. White said bin Laden was charged with ``plotting and carrying out the most heinous acts of international terrorism and murder.''
Citing the more than 250 people killed in the embassy attacks and the more than 1,000 wounded, she added, ``In a greater sense, all of the citizens of the world are also victims whenever and wherever the cruel and cowardly acts of international terrorism strike.''
The investigation of bin Laden is continuing, said Ms. White and Lewis D. Schiliro, assistant director of the FBI in New York, whose agents have fanned out around the world to look into the embassy attacks.
``Our investigative strategy is clear,'' Schiliro said.
``We will identify, locate and prosecute all those responsible, right up the line, from those who constructed and delivered the bombs to those who paid for them and ordered it done.''
A federal district judge agreed Tuesday to review complaints by lawyers for three men arrested after the bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa that their jail conditions in Manhattan are unconstitutional and inhumane.
Judge Leonard Sand of U.S. District Court in Manhattan said he had received an eight-page letter from lawyers for two of three defendants in custody in Manhattan.
The lawyers complained that their clients were being held in total isolation for almost 24 hours a day in a unit called 10 South, the most restrictive holding area in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in lower Manhattan.
The defendants are allowed only brief periods of exercise in a barren room, called the rat cage, a defense lawyer, Michael Young, wrote in the letter.
A second lawyer, Leonard Joy, concurred with the views in the letter, which was made public Tuesday.
In agreeing to review the conditions, Sand said, ``Certainly it has to be addressed, that is, the condition of confinement for all of the defendants.''
The judge made his comments in the first hearing in the bombing case since last week's indictment by a federal grand jury of Osama bin Laden, who the authorities believe was the mastermind of the embassy attacks.
Bin Laden remains at large and is believed to be living in Afghanistan under the protection of the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalist movement that rules that country.
In discussing conditions at the Manhattan jail, the lawyers said that two of the defendants have not been able to call their families, while the third has been allowed to make only one phone call.
The lawyers added that the defendants cannot have visitors, write letters, or receive mail or books.
The skirmishing continued in court.
``I cannot give my client a dictionary,'' a third lawyer, Bruce McIntyre, who represents Wadih el Hage, told the judge.
El Hage has been charged with conspiring to kill Americans abroad and has been described by the government as a former personal secretary to bin Laden.
The two other defendants in court Tuesday _ Mohammed Saddiq Odeh and Mohamed Rashed Daoud al-'Owhali _ have each been charged with separate counts of murder in the deaths of more than 200 people in the embassy attacks in Kenya and Tanzania on August 7.
All three men have pleaded not guilty.
Patrick Fitzgerald, an assistant U.S. attorney, told the judge that the government would have a response by Friday, and his comments suggested that the government will be prepared to make some modifications in the restrictions.
A bomb-loaded car exploded near a busy Jerusalem market killing the bombers and  injuring 21 others.
Detonation was possibly premature, saving others from becoming  victims.
Hamas initially claimed responsibility but Islamic Jihad was the real  agent.
Israel immediately suspended action on the US-brokered peace accord.
President Clinton expressed sympathy but said that the accord should not be derailed.
Yassir Arafat appeared on Israel TV and condemned the attacks and promised to  track-down the masterminds.
Family members of the bombers expressed pride in their  sons and confirmed that they were in Islamic Jihad.
Egypt's Mubarak expressed doubts  regarding Israel's peace efforts.
A car bomb exploded in a Jerusalem market Friday killing two assailants and wounding  21 Israelis.
The militant group Hamas claimed responsibility.
The incident caused the  Israelis to suspend ratification of a U.S.-brokered Wye River accord calling for  Israel to give Palestine 13% of the West Bank in exchange for a Palestinian campaign  against Islamic militants.
Arafat promised to hunt the masterminds of the bombing and  urged the Israelis not to halt the accord.
Some believe the failure of the attack  indicates Arab-Israeli efforts are weakening the militants.
The president of Egypt is  skeptical that the Israelis will implement the accord.
Friday morning shoppers fled the Mahane Yehuda marketplace when a smoking car approached the entrance.
It exploded, killing the bombers and injuring 24, before explosives-filled suitcases could be carried into the crowd.
Hamas claimed responsibility but Iranian-sponsored Islamic Jihad was later suspected.
Israel's Cabinet immediately suspended deliberations on the US-brokered Wye Accord, under which Israel would relinquish 13 percent more of the West Bank and Arafat would crack down on terrorists.
Many doubted Netanyahu would let the accord be implemented, thus playing into militants' hands.
Arafat and Clinton urged that the attack not derail the accord.
This third failure of an attempted attack suggested the crackdown on terrorists had produced results.
On Friday morning, November 6, 1998, a red Fiat blew up at a market in Jerusalem.
The two bombers were killed and 21 others injured.
Netanyahu immediately suspended  discussions on ratifying the Wye Peace Accord, which would turn an additional 13%  of the West Bank over to Arafat.
The Islamic Jihad was blamed for the blast, which  exploded prematurely saving many lives.
President Clinton, Secretary of State Albright,  and Egyptian President Mabarak urged the Israelis to continue the ratification process.
Arafat condemned the bombing and vowed to find the mastermind, but castigated Netanyahu  for using the bombing as an excuse to derail the accord.
A car bomb exploded Friday in a Jerusalem market crowded with Israelis shopping for the Sabbath.
The blast killed two, apparently the assailants, and wounded 21 Israelis.
In response, Israel's Cabinet suspended implementation of the new peace accord with the Palestinians.
The Islamic militant group Hamas, which has been trying to sabotage the peace accord, claimed responsibility for the 9:45 a.m. (0745 GMT) attack in the Mahane Yehuda market, police said.
Friday's bombing marked the third time in less than three weeks that Hamas tried, but failed, to carry out an attack with large numbers of Israeli casualties, suggesting that a recent crackdown by Israel and the Palestinian Authority has had an effect.
Palestinian officials condemned the attack, but accused Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of political blackmail for holding up the agreement that was to give the Palestinians another 13 percent of the West Bank.
In the attack, a red Fiat drove slowly toward the main intersection at the entrance of the outdoor market, smoke coming out of the hood and windows.
Rahel Zaken, who was waiting in line at a bakery to buy Sabbath bread, turned toward the street and glimpsed the driver.
``I saw his eyes.
He looked right at me,'' said Zaken, a 23-year-old secretary.
Seconds later, an explosion shook the area.
``I fell to the ground and stumbled over one of the beggars and crawled away on my hands and legs,'' she said.
She was hospitalized after complaining of ringing in the ears.
Other witnesses said they heard two explosions, followed by fast pops, like the sound of firecrackers.
Israel radio said two suitcases filled with explosives were found near the car, suggesting the blast went off prematurely and that the assailants had planned a more powerful explosion.
Israel TV said the two dead were the assailants.
A charred, dismembered corpse, covered by tires, lay several meters (yards) away.
Streams of soot-black water ran in the street.
Another bare-legged body lay in the street, face down, in a pool of blood.
In July 1997, two Islamic militants blew themselves up just a few meters (yards) from the site of the latest explosion, killing themselves and 16 shoppers.
When Friday's explosion went off, the Israeli Cabinet had just gathered about a mile (kilometer) away, at Netanyahu's office, to discuss the peace agreement under which Israel is to withdraw from 13 percent of the West Bank, in exchange for a Palestinian campaign against Islamic militants.
The agreement cannot be implemented until it is ratified by the Cabinet.
Netanyahu adviser David Bar-Illan said at the start of the session that he had expected a vote later Friday.
However, the session broke off when word of the attack reached the ministers.
Later, the ministers decided to indefinitely suspend the ratification process.
``The government of Israel will resume the discussion of the agreement after it verifies that the Palestinian Authority is taking vigorous steps for a relentless fight against terrorist organizations and their infrastructure,'' a Cabinet statement said.
The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat condemned the attack, but said Israel was playing into the hands of the militants by suspending the peace process.
``I wished that the Israeli government would not point its finger at the Palestinian Authority,'' Erekat said.
``The Palestinian Authority is exerting the maximum effort to foil terror and violence.''
The Cabinet also demanded clarifications from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on the procedure for removing sections of the PLO charter calling for Israel's destruction.
The Wye River agreement says the Palestine National Council and other Palestinian organizations will meet in mid-December to ``reaffirm'' a letter by Arafat to U.S. President Bill Clinton that spells out the clauses being annulled.
Israel contends that the agreement requires the PNC to hold a vote on the clauses.
The Cabinet also said it would act to strengthen Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
Bar-Illan said construction would be authorized ``in the near future'' of the controversial Jewish neighborhood of Har Homa in traditionally Arab east Jerusalem, but would not give a date.
At the scene of Friday's explosion along Jerusalem's busiest thoroughfare, soldiers and police held back crowds of people, some frantic about loved ones who had been shopping in the crowded market only hours before the start of the Jewish Sabbath.
A small crowd of protesters shouted, ``Death to Arabs!
Death to Arafat!''
Just a block away from Friday's blast, shoppers went about their business.
``We can't stop with what we are doing when this happens,'' one young female shopper said.
A car bomb blew up Friday in a Jerusalem market crowded with Israelis shopping for the Sabbath.
The blast killed two assailants, wounded 21 Israelis and prompted Israel to suspend implementation of the peace accord with the Palestinians.
The Islamic militant group Hamas, which has been trying to sabotage the agreement, claimed responsibility for the 9:45 a.m. (0745 gmt) attack in the Mahane Yehuda market.
Palestinian officials condemned the attack, but accused Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of political blackmail for holding up the agreement that was to give the Palestinians another 13 percent of the West Bank by the end of January.
In the attack, a red Fiat drove slowly toward the main intersection at the market entrance, smoke coming out of the hood and windows.
``People started to shout `car on fire,''' said Yair Cohen, a bus company employee.
Rahel Zaken, waiting in line at a bakery to buy Sabbath bread, turned toward the street and got a glimpse of the driver.
``I saw his eyes.
He looked right at me,'' said Zaken, a 32-year-old secretary.
Seconds later, an explosion shook the area.
``I fell to the ground and stumbled over one of the beggars and crawled away on my hands and legs,'' she said.
She was hospitalized after complainging of ringing in the ears.
Others said they heard two explosions, followed by fast pops, like the sound of firecrackers.
Israel radio said two suitcases filled with explosives were recovered near the car, suggesting the blast went off prematurely and that the assailants had planned to set off a more powerful explosion.
Friday's bombing marked the third time in less than three weeks that Hamas tried, but failed, to carry out an attack with large numbers of Israeli casualties, suggesting that a recent crackdown by Israel and the Palestinian Authority has produced results.
A charred, dismembered corpse, covered by tires, lay several meters (yards) away.
Streams of soot-black water ran in the street.
Another bare-legged body lay in the street, face down, in a pool of blood below the head.
Rescue workers covered the body with sodden pieces of cardboard box and plastic shopping bags.
Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai said the two dead were the assailants.
Asked about Hamas' apparent difficulty to launch a large-scale attack, he said: ``We can't depend on miracles.''
The explosion turned the car into a mass of twisted metal, and a large cloud of smoke engulfed the area.
``There was hysteria, people were running,'' said Eliad Duan, an Israeli border policeman.
Soldiers and police held back the crowds.
``It's dangerous _ stay back!''
they shouted.
At police barricades set up along Jerusalem's busiest thoroughfare, soldiers and police held back crowds of people, some frantic about loved ones who had been shopping in the crowded market only hours before the start of the Jewish Sabbath.
``Please, please, is there a girl with red hair who is hurt?''
an older, heavyset woman said tearfully, trying to push her way past police.
A young female soldier patted her arm consolingly.
Two policemen led away an elderly woman who gripped a blue plastic shopping bag filled with groceries.
A small crowd of protesters shouted, ``Death to Arabs!
Death to Arafat!''
Police tried to grab one of them, but he escaped into the crowd.
Just a block away from Friday's blast, shoppers went about their business.
``We can't stop with what we are doing when this happens,'' one young female shopper said.
In July 1997, two Islamic militants blew themselves up just a few meters (yards) from the site of the latest explosion, killing themselves and 16 shoppers.
When Friday's blast rocked downtown Jerusalem, the Israeli Cabinet had just gathered about a mile (kilometer) away, at Netanyahu's office, to discuss the peace agreement under which Israel is to withdraw from 13 percent of the West Bank in exchange for a Palestinian campaign against Islamic militants.
The agreement cannot be implemented until it is ratified by the Cabinet.
Netanyahu adviser David Bar-Illan said at the start of the session that he had expected a vote later Friday.
However, the session broke off when word of the attack reached the ministers.
The meeting was resumed shortly after noon, with ministers deciding to suspend the ratification process.
The Cabinet said in a statement will only reconvene after ``it verifies that the Palestinian Authority takes vigorous steps for an all-out war against terrorist organizations and their infrastructure.''
The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, condemned the attack, but said Israel was playing into the hands of the militants by suspending the peace process.
He also said the Palestinians were doing all they could to stop the violence.
``I wished that the Israeli government would not point its finger at the Palestinian Authority,'' Erekat said.
Bar-Illan said ratification was possible as early as next week if the Palestinians take decisive steps against militants.
The Cabinet also demanded clarifications from Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on the procedure for revoking clauses in the PLO founding charter calling for Israel's destruction.
The Wye River agreement refers to the procedure, but is vague enough to allow different interpretations.
It says the Palestine National Council and other Palestinian organizations will meet in mid-December to ``reaffirm'' a letter by Arafat to U.S. President Bill Clinton in which the Palestinian leader spells out which clauses are being annulled.
The Palestinians dispute Israel's contention that the agreement calls for the PNC to hold a vote on the clauses.
The Cabinet also said it would act to strengthen Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
Israel radio initially said the ministers decided to begin construction of the controversial Jewish neighborhood of Har Homa in traditionally Arab east Jerusalem next.
Bar-Illan said construction would be authorized ``in the near future,'' but would not give a date.
&UR; kl
Suicide bombers targeted a crowded open-air market Friday, setting off blasts that killed the two assailants, injured 21 shoppers and passersby and prompted the Israeli Cabinet to put off action on the new peace accord.
The radical Islamic group Hamas claimed responsibility for the attack, the second suicide bombing since the signing of the land-for-security accord two weeks ago.
On Oct. 29, an assailant tried to ram an explosives-rigged car into a bus carrying Jewish schoolchildren in the Gaza Strip.
The Mahane Yehuda market _ several square blocks of narrow, stone-walled lanes and wooden stalls heaped high with fruit, vegetables and spices _ was packed with shoppers making last-minute purchases before the start of the Jewish Sabbath.
The blast sent a billowing cloud of black smoke pouring into the air.
Shoppers _ many of them Orthodox Jews clad in sweeping skirts or long black frock coats _ fled in panic, some scattering their purchases on the street.
At the market's entrance, the assailants' red Fiat was reduced to a mass of twisted metal, with only the steering column left intact.
Next to it was a charred body cut nearly in half by the force of the blast; a few feet (meters) away was a second body, bare-legged and face down in a pool of blood.
Police said they had determined the identities of the assailants, but refused to release any details.
Witnesses' accounts suggested the blast had gone off prematurely, perhaps averting a much larger loss of life.
Onlookers said they saw smoke and flames coming from the car and heard a series of popping explosions before a larger blast shook the area.
By then, people had already started running away.
``When the big explosion went, there were not that many people nearby,'' said witness Yaakov Shlomo.
``That was a miracle from heaven.''
Almost all the injuries were minor, from flying debris; by nightfall seven people remained hospitalized.
Blasted-apart suitcases were found in the car's wreckage, Israel radio reported, suggesting that the attackers had perhaps intended to carry parcels of explosives deep into the crowd.
That method was used to deadly effect in an attack at the market 16 months ago that killed the two suicide bombers and 16 others.
Israeli officials acknowledged that the toll was remarkably light for an attack surely meant to kill and maim many, but said it still showed the daily danger Israelis face from Islamic militants.
``We can't depend on miracles _ we need to fight the cycle of terrorism,'' said Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai.
He and other Cabinet ministers, who were in the midst of debate over ratifying the agreement at the time of the attack, cut short their session and did not schedule a date for resumption.
David Bar-Illan, a top aide to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he still expected the accord to be ratified eventually.
But the suspension of debate will almost certainly bring delays in the tightly timed 12-week schedule for implementation.
The Cabinet it would take up the accord again only after verifying ``that the Palestinian Authority is taking vigorous steps for an all-out war against terrorist organizations.''
Palestinian officials denounced the attack and urged Israel not to let it hold up the accord.
``I hope that at this critical period, we will concentrate on the bigger picture,'' senior Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said as he headed into a meeting of the Palestinian Cabinet.
``The answer to extremists on both sides sworn to sabotage this process must be a big `No.'''
He also urged the United States to step in and make sure that Israel will ratify the accord.
Immediately after the bombing, small but furious protests by right-wing Israelis broke out.
``Death to Arabs!
Death to Arafat!''
a dozen or more demonstrators shouted from behind the police barricades.
Several were arrested.
At times like this, Israel has a small-town feel; within moments of the blast, people all over Jerusalem knew of it.
In the Ben Yehuda pedestrian mall, itself the scene of a suicide bombing 14 months ago, people in open-air cafes clustered around radios, listening, nodding and relaying the news.
``Bomb, Mahane Yehuda,'' they told passersby.
Yair Cohen, 45, a bus-company worker who was shopping at the market, said that moments before the blast he had given money to a beggar on the street as a ``mitzvah'' _ a good deed that observant Jews believe will help lead to their own salvation.
``I said to myself, `Maybe this will save my life,''' he recounted later at the hospital, his gray T-shirt stained with blood where he was hit by flying shrapnel.
``And ten minutes later, there was the explosion _ and I really did escape death.''
Suicide bombers targeted a crowded open-air market Friday, setting off blasts that killed the two assailants, injured 21 shoppers and passersby and prompted the Israeli Cabinet to put off action on the new peace accord.
The radical Islamic group Hamas claimed responsibility for the attack, the second suicide bombing since the signing of the land-for-security accord two weeks ago.
Last Thursday, an assailant tried to ram an explosives-rigged car into a bus carrying Jewish schoolchildren in the Gaza Strip.
However, Palestinian security officials said that it was members of the militant Islamic Jihad group which carried out the attack.
The officials identified one of the assailants as Yusef Ali Mohammed Zughayar, 18, of Anata, a refugee camp north of Jerusalem.
Anata, which is under Israeli control, straddles the line between the West Bank and Jerusalem.
Justice Minister Tshahi Hanegbi said that second assailant came from the Palestinian controlled areas.
In a rare direct appeal to the Israeli people, Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat appeared on Israel TV during the main Friday evening news program and condemned the bombing as ``criminal.''
``We must work together, Israelis and Palestinians, to confront these terrorist acts that aim to destroy the peace process,'' said a grim-faced Arafat Arafat, adding that he would ``exert 100 percent effort'' to track down those involved in the attack.
Arafat also called Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to express his sorrow.
The Israeli leader told Arafat that for the peace process to continue, the Palestinians would have to significantly step up their war against terrorists, a statement by Netanyahu's office said.
The Palestinian cabinet also condemned the attack following their meeting Friday night but added that Israel should not use it as an excuse to halt the peace process.
The Mahane, 3rd graf pvs 	&UR; kl
Islamic militants are pulling out all the stops to keep the new U.S.-brokered Israeli-Palestinian peace accord from becoming reality.
In recent days, suicide bombers have attacked an Israeli school bus in the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem's outdoor market.
Last month, grenades were hurled at a bus stop in the southern city of Beersheba.
But the failure of those attacks and others to inflict major casualties marks a change from past terrorist spectacles and is an indication that Israeli and Palestinian efforts may have already weakened the militants.
In Friday's market attack _ which was initially claimed by the largest militant group, Hamas, but later blamed on activists from the smaller Islamic Jihad group _ Israel radio quoted police as describing the explosives as an ``amateur bomb.''
It killed the two bombers and injured 21 Israelis.
Yaakov Perry, former head of the Israeli Shin Bet, told The Associated Press that raids by Israeli agents and, in recent weeks, by Palestinian security forces as well have led to the arrest of key leaders and the killing of expert bombmakers.
``There is a weakness both in the explosives used and the engineers, the experts who can put together the bomb, and there is also a problem in the quality of the terrorist themselves,'' he said, adding recent attackers appeared poorly trained.
Abdel-Satter Qassem, a professor at An Najah University in the West Bank town of Nablus who is familiar with the thinking of the Islamic leadership, said Friday's attack came in response to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's recent crackdown on the radicals.
As part of that campaign, Hamas founder and spiritual leader, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, was placed under house arrest last week.
``It is a message (to Arafat) that if you are going to keep your promises to the Israelis and hit hard on Islamists there will be a response that will curb your efforts to reach agreement with Israel,'' Qassem said.
He said last week's Gaza car bomb that narrowly missed a school bus with 40 children aboard was in response to Israel's killing of two Hamas leaders, Adel and Imad Awadallah in September, and the death of master bomb maker Mohiyedine Sharif in March.
Perry and another former Shin Bet chief, Carmi Gilon, said the Israeli Cabinet decision to suspend consideration of the Mideast peace deal reached at the Wye summit in Maryland was a mistake that only encouraged Hamas and other groups.
Gilon said the aim of the militants was to ``ruin the whole process.
I'm just sorry our Cabinet made such a decision which is exactly the aim of Hamas _ to stop Wye.''
In 1995 and 1996, a series of suicide-bombings by Islamic militants claimed scores of Israeli lives and halted the peace process, bringing to power the hard-line government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Arafat's police rounded up the militants then, but the activists were later released from jail.
David Bar-Illan, a top aide to Netanyahu, said it was impossible to continue the troop withdrawal process because Arafat's forces were doing so little.
He predicted that the militants would keep attacking until Arafat's police uprooted the sources of support _ including charities that collected money, teachers that recruited the youth and clergy who encouraged attacks.
He said Israel was merely lucky that recent attacks hadn't claimed more casualties.
``We can't rely any longer on miracles.
We have to have some action on the part of the Palestinian Authority,'' Bar-Illan said.
At a rally in the Gaza Strip several hours after Friday's market bombing, a former Hamas activist who is now in Arafat's Cabinet said Netanyahu's policies, such as building Jewish settlements in the West Bank, were to blame for the attacks.
``We want to tell him that if you put pressure on the Palestinian people and against the Palestinian organizations, those groups will point their arrows against you,'' Communications Minister Imad Falouji told the crowd.
Falouji shared a platform with Abdallah Shami, leader of the Islamic Jihad, a militant group sponsored by Iran, who affirmed ``our right to fight the occupiers as our religion and laws dictate.''
Many in the crowd cheered.
___ &QC;  	EDITOR'S NOTE _ Nicolas B. Tatro, based in Jerusalem, is The Associated Press chief of bureau for Israel.
Islamic militants are pulling out all the stops to keep the new U.S.-brokered Israeli-Palestinian peace accord from becoming reality.
In recent days, suicide bombers have attacked an Israeli school bus in the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem's outdoor market.
Last month, grenades were hurled at a bus stop in the southern city of Beersheba.
But the failure of those attacks and others to inflict major casualties marks a change from past terrorist spectacles and is an indication that Israeli and Palestinian efforts may have already weakened the militants.
In Friday's market attack _ which was initially claimed by the largest militant group, Hamas, but later blamed on activists from the smaller Islamic Jihad group _ Israel radio quoted police as describing the explosives as an ``amateur bomb.''
It killed the two bombers and injured 21 Israelis.
Yaakov Perry, former, 5th graf pvs.
The father of one of the Islamic militants who died in the suicide bombing of a crowded Jerusalem market said Saturday he was sad about his son's death but proud of what he had done.
Friday's bombing at the open-air Mahane Yehuda market killed the two assailants, injured 21 Israelis and jeopardized the 2-week-old Israeli-Palestinian peace accord.
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat promised to track down the masterminds of the bombing and urged that it not be allowed to set back the new land-for-security agreement.
``We must work together, Israelis and Palestinians, to confront these terrorist acts that aim to destroy the peace process,'' Arafat said after the attack on the market, which was swarming with shoppers readying for the Jewish Sabbath.
In a rare direct statement to the Israeli people, Arafat appeared on Israeli TV and promised to ``exert 100 percent effort'' to catch and punish those who had planned the bombing.
The radical group Hamas claimed responsibility for the attack, but Palestinian security officials blamed members of the militant Islamic Jihad.
One of the dead bombers was identified as Yusef Ali Mohammed Zughayar, who lived in an Israeli-controlled area north of Jerusalem.
His family said he was 22 and acknowledged he was active in Islamic Jihad.
Palestinian security officials said the other was Suleiman Musa Dahayneh, 23, from a village outside the West Bank town of Jenin.
At Zughayar's house near the Anata refugee camp, dozens of friends and relatives gathered Saturday to mourn, although they could not hold a funeral because the body had not been handed over by Israeli authorities.
``I didn't raise him to lose him like that,'' said Zughayar's 54-year-old father, Mohammed.
``I'm proud, but I'm sad because I loved my son.''
Friday's attack was the second suicide bombing since the signing of the peace accord on Oct. 23.
On Oct. 29, an activist from Hamas killed himself and an Israeli soldier when he tried to ram an explosives-rigged car into a bus carrying Jewish schoolchildren.
Arafat called Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to express sorrow over Friday's bombing, but the Israeli leader told him that for the peace process to continue, the Palestinians would have to significantly step up their war against terrorists.
Israel's Cabinet, which was meeting at the time of the attack, cut short its debate on ratifying the accord, and did not set a date for resuming it.
The Palestinian Cabinet condemned the attack following its own meeting Friday night, but said Israel should not use it as an excuse to halt the peace process.
The toll from the attack at the Mahane Yehuda market was far lighter than might have been expected because the explosives apparently went off prematurely.
Many shoppers in the crowded market saw smoke and flames coming from the car and fled moments before the main blast.
Suitcases were found in the car's wreckage, Israel radio reported, suggesting the attackers may have intended to carry separate parcels of explosives deep into the crowd.
That method was used in an attack at the market 16 months ago that killed the two suicide bombers and 16 others.
Egypt's president says there is ``virtually nobody'' who believes Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will implement the latest peace deal with Palestinians.
In an interview published Saturday, President Hosni Mubarak said if Netanyahu wants to change that perception he must boldly face the setback to peace caused by Friday's car bombing in Jerusalem that killed the two bombers and injured 21.
``I tell the Israelis that the solution does not lie in freezing negotiations,'' Mubarak was quoted as saying by the government-run Egyptian Mail newspaper.
Mubarak is a key player in Middle East peace negotiations and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat regularly consults him.
Mubarak's comments reflect the popular Arab feeling that Israel is insincere about peace, and that it only looks for excuses to retain control over West Bank.
Mubarak said explosions are a worldwide occurrence.
But ``does life come to a halt?
On the contrary.
The peace foes who are many should be denied the chance,'' he was quoted as saying.
Following Friday's bombing, Netanyahu's right-wing Cabinet suspended the ratification of an interim peace deal he reached last month with Arafat at Wye River in the United States.
Under the accord, Israel agreed to relinquish a further 13 percent of the West Bank and Arafat promised to develop a plan to uproot terrorists on Palestinian-controlled areas.
Mubarak said that even as the accord was signed Oct. 23 he was cautioning that implementation of the deal was more important than words.
``This is because I felt apprehensive what occurred (in Jerusalem) would happen,'' he said.
However, that is no reason to go back on the accord, he said.
``I tell ... Netanyahu that there is virtually nobody who trusts that you will carry out the Wye River accord.
Should you want to change this perception, you have to take the initiative and make practical steps to comply with ... the agreement,'' Mubarak was quoted as saying.
Failure to do so will only ensure recurrence of violence, he said.
``The Palestinians are beset with frustrations from all sides.
So when a ray of hope appears for them on the horizon, they should be supported, not the other way round,'' he said.
On normalizing Arab-Israeli ties, Mubarak said the two peoples should accept the idea first before anything is imposed by ``supreme decrees.''
And people can only be won over by ``sowing the seeds of trust, by handing over land to their rightful owners and respecting treaties and accords.''
he said.
&UR; vj/mae
A red Fiat belching smoke sent shoppers fleeing moments before it exploded outside a bustling marketplace on Friday morning, killing the two bombers, injuring 24 other people and disabling the U.S.-brokered peace effort.
The Israeli Cabinet immediately suspended deliberations on the peace accord that was reached in Wye Mills, Md., last month and called on Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, to prove he was cracking down on terrorism.
Reverberating through the heart of downtown, the blast Friday morning was the second since the Israelis and the Palestinians signed the new land-for-security agreement.
The Israelis believe that Islamic Holy War, a militant fundamentalist organization, bears responsibility for the attack at the heavily guarded Mahane Yehuda market, where terrorists have staged several deadly bombings before.
The attack occurred during the typical Friday shopping rush before the Sabbath.
At 9:40 a.m., the Fiat, chugging along like a car about to quit, began emitting smoke.
The smoke served as the first alarm, followed by a series of small explosions, that sounded like firecrackers.
In the minutes before the final boom, as the car aimed to climb the sidewalk, the police moved quickly to clear the busy area, in an effort to minimize the final toll.
The bombers died, their car blown to bits of twisted metal.
But once the flames ebbed and the thick black smoke cleared, only one victim proved to be badly injured.
``I started running like a crazy person,'' said Sigal Yitzer, who was recovering from minor injuries in a Jerusalem hospital.
``I thought only of my two 18-month-old twins at home, and if I should die, who would be their mother?''
Arafat condemned the bombing, spending the day in meetings in Ramallah with his top security advisers and Cabinet.
But his aides expressed concern that the attack had provided Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, with an excuse for reneging on his commitment to the peace accord.
``I am sure the result of this terrorist action will be to give a gift, an umbrella, to Netanyahu,'' said Freich Abu Madein, the Palestinian minister of justice.
Implementation of the accord was supposed to have begun last Monday, but the Israelis delayed it, with Netanyahu insisting he needed the approval of his Cabinet and Parliament first.
Then, he postponed convening his Cabinet, demanding written guarantees that the Palestinians would arrest 30 fugitives.
When the Israeli ministers finally met, in a rambunctious all-day session on Thursday, they indicated that they might give the peace accord only conditional approval, if any.
They had just reconvened on Friday morning when they received news of the explosion.
They immediately moved to suspend their vote on the accord _ and thus, its implementation _ until Arafat declared ``all-out war'' on terrorism, according to Cabinet Secretary Danny Naveh.
``We expect Arafat to do what is being demanded of him,'' said Silvan Shalom, the Israeli minister of science.
``He needs to combat the terror infrastructure.
He has done that in the past and he needs to do so now.''
Netanyahu issued no public statements.
He did not visit the scene, and he did not visit the injured at the hospital.
nn
President Clinton expressed sympathy to Israel Friday after a car-bomb explosion in a Jerusalem market wounded 24 people but said the attack should not derail the recent land-for-security deal between Israel and the Palestinians.
The president said the accord that he helped mediate last month was ``the best way to safety for the Israelis, the best way to achieve the aspirations of the Palestinians and, in the end, the only answer to Friday's act of criminal terror.''
Two suicide bombers died in the attack in Jerusalem, which appeared to be an effort to undermine the Wye agreement, named for the Maryland conference center where the settlement was reached last month.
``When Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat signed the Wye River agreement, they knew they would face this moment,'' the president said, interrupting a bill signing ceremony at the White House to discuss the bombing.
``They knew when they went home, both of them would be under more danger and that terrorists would target innocent civilians; they knew they would have to muster a lot of courage in their people,'' he said, expressing ``my sympathy to the people of Israel, who this morning were once again the target of a vicious terrorist attack.''
``No nation should live under the threat of violence and terror that they live under every day,'' he said.
``I ask for your prayers and support today for the Israelis and the Palestinians who believe in this agreement and who are determined to carry out their responsibilities.''
Under the Wye accord, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel agreed to relinquish a further 13 percent of the West Bank, and Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, promised to crack down on Palestinian terrorists.
The State Department said Secretary of State Madeleine Albright had telephoned Netanyahu to express her condolences and to urge him to move quickly, despite the violence, to carry out the agreement reached with the Palestinians.
The latest terrorist attack prompted the Israeli Cabinet to delay further consideration of the agreement, a decision that Albright said was appropriate as long as it was temporary.
``It is customary for there to be a short pause in the wake of this kind of attack,'' she said at a news conference after speaking with Netanyahu.
But she added: ``It is important for the Israeli Cabinet to resume its deliberations quickly.
I believe, based on my conversations with the prime minister, that he wants to find a way to do this.''
Optimum viewing of the Leonid meteor shower in November 1998 was forecast for East Asia.
Some predicted the shower to rival the greatest of the century in 1966, others said it would be more modest.
Meteor showers are hard to predict.
Of particular concern in 1998 was the danger posed by the storms to earth-orbiting satellites.
Some satellites were repositioned to be less likely targets, but authorities differed as to the real danger.
Scientists studied the showers with various airborne instruments.
In fact, the showers were more impressive viewed from Europe than East Asia and there was no damage to satellites.
The Earth encounters Leonid meteors every year on about the same date, but  only once in approximately every 33 years do heavy bombardments occur.
The  meteors are mostly microscopic fragments of Comet 55P/Tempel-Tuttle.
This year,  Asians were treated to the most spectacular view.
Meteor sightings peaked at  slightly more than 2,000 per hour - barely one-tenth the rate at which meteors  hit the atmosphere during the great 1966 Leonid storm.
Many of the world's 600-plus  satellites were maneuvered to reduce the possibility of damage from the speeding grit.
No problems were reported.
Scientists conducted many experiments to further knowledge  about meteor storms.
The Leonid meteor showers occur every 33 years as the Tempel-Tuttle comet speeds through the inner solar system shedding swarms of particles as it nears the sun.
The spectacular 1966 display peaked at 150,000 meteors per hour.
As the 1998 showers approached, scientists disagreed about the vulnerability of the 600 odd commercial and military earth orbit satellites.
Precautions were taken to place satellites in a protective modes or angles.
The storm was disappointingly light compared to 1966.
Afterwards, no problems were reported.
The viewing was best in Asia, poor in the States.
Scientists built unique equipment to conduct their experiments.
The Leonid meteor shower that occurred on 16 and 17 November 1998 consisted of small fragments from the Comet Temple-Tuttle.
Some scientists predicted that the 1998 meteor shower would be intense.
Asia was expected to be the best viewing area.
The display in Asia was disappointing, but was unexpectedly good over southern Europe.
Chances of severe damage to any private or government were considered minimal.
Nevertheless, operators of the 600 plus satellites that relay national defense information, entertainment and news stories took cautionary steps to further reduce risk.
There were no reports of damage to any satellite.
Stargazers in Asia sought high ground and clear skies Tuesday to view the most spectacular celestial fireworks in 33 years, after enjoying a low-key preview Monday night.
The Leonids meteor shower was expected to blaze forth in its entire glory over Asia and the Pacific after midnight and into early Wednesday, regaling millions with a heavenly display of falling stars too numerous to wish upon.
Sky-watchers will get a final chance at the big show Wednesday night, after which sporadic showers may be visible for several days.
The front-row seats were expected to be wherever the sky was darkest and clearest _ from the Mongolian steppes to the mountains of northern Thailand to U.S. research planes breaking through cloud cover over Okinawa, Japan.
For millions of others _ those befogged by weather or living in North America, when the spectacle was to reach its peak at midday, the worst time for viewing _ the Internet was the place to be.
In northern Thailand, hotels, camp grounds and airlines were booked solid with people expected to head to Doi Inthanon, the Southeast Asian country's highest peak at 2,565 meters (8,464 feet).
For those who went up Monday night, the streaking star-fall came into view at about 1:30 a.m. Tuesday (1830 GMT Monday) to a chorus of ``oohs'' and ``aahs,'' and 33-year-old Thamarong Kudpong made his wish: ``I already have a daughter.
Now, I would like a son.''
Many in Japan were wishing Tuesday for the weather to clear.
The government called on public offices and private businesses in the cities to turn off their lights to enhance viewing possibilities.
In Thailand, police anticipated a rush out of Bangkok, the smog-ceilinged capital, by people looking for a clearer view.
Alternative traffic routes were posted to avoid worsening evening rush hour.
Officials in the capital ordered all public parks closed Tuesday night for fear that hordes of stargazers would not be safe in the dark, said a local television station.
At least one member of the Thai royal family, Princess Sirindhorn, was traveling to a rural eastern province to observe the show, ITV also reported.
The celestial fireworks are actually the long tail of the Comet Tempel-Tuttle.
The shower is nicknamed Leonids because ancient observers thought the meteors came from the constellation Leo.
It occurs every November, usually with little fanfare.
But every 33 years, the comet speeds through the inner solar system and sheds swarms of particles as it nears the sun.
In 1966, the Leonids display peaked at 150,000 meteors per hour.
Earth plows straight through the comet's wake as it traces its own orbit.
The shower of ``falling stars'' is actually the glowing contrails of comet dust, or meteoroids.
Many of the world's 600-plus satellites have been maneuvered to reduce the possibility of damage from the speeding grit, which can poke holes in solar panels, pit lenses, blast away mirror coatings or cause damaging electromagnetic pulses.
Russian space authorities said the crew of the Mir space stations was prepared for a too-close encounter and would enter the Soyuz escape capsule when the shower is at its peak.
``It is better to be on the safe side,'' Deputy Mission Control chief Viktor Blagov was quoted as saying by the ITAR-Tass news agency.
In Romania, the Bucharest daily Evenimentul Zilei said in a front-page headline: ``Romanians, Stay Inside!
Leonide, the Toughest Meteor Rain.''
Satellite operators reported no immediate problems Tuesday as the Earth passed through the tail of a comet that peppered the atmosphere with tiny bits of space junk zipping along at 155,000 mph (250,000 kph).
While people around the world watched the beginning of the best meteor storm light show in three decades, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration and private satellite companies rotated their high-tech machinery to face away from the approaching debris.
The Hubble telescope was turned away from the storm to protect lens surfaces.
And the crew of Russia's Mir space station planned to wait out the worst of the storm in their emergency escape vehicle.
Most military satellites are built to withstand attack and so have better protection from the tiny meteors.
NASA planned to reposition six of its 22 satellites to present a smaller target.
Others were to be powered down for the worst part of the storm.
The particles from the tail of Comet Tempel-Tuttle move at 43 miles (69 kilometers) per second.
Even a small grain can have the destructive force of a .22-caliber bullet shot at one of the world's 600-plus satellites, experts say.
The debris particles, most no bigger than a grain of sand, can bore holes in solar panels, damage lenses, blast away mirror coatings or cause harmful electrical charges.
That created a threat to communications, satellite TV broadcasts and military spying.
Aerospace Corp. had no reports of trouble as of early this morning, said company spokesman Greg Hughes, who was on call overnight in case of emergency.
An office at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, that was to orchestrate troubleshooting efforts remained unstaffed during the night.
The likelihood of a direct hit was small.
``The chances of any one satellite getting smacked by a particle is probably less than one in one thousand, but on the other hand, some of these satellites are worth hundreds of millions of dollars, so you do take whatever precautions you can,'' said Don Yeomans, a senior research scientist at Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Whether they stood on the tallest mountain in Thailand or the desert in California, tens of thousands of people were searching the skies for a glimpse of the biggest meteor shower in decades.
Clouds interfered with the view from many sites, but many stargazers were rewarded with a spectacular view of meteors streaking through the skies in blazes of red and white as the Leonid meteor shower reached its climax early Wednesday in Asia.
The shower, which peaks every 33 years, is caused by the Earth's passage through the long tail of the Comet Tempel-Tuttle.
The storm, which began Monday, got its name because it appears to come from the direction of the constellation Leo.
The biggest crowds gathered in Asia, which was best positioned for viewing the climax, but the spectacle was seen throughout the globe _ weather permitting.
In Tokyo and many other Asian cities, public offices and private businesses turned off their lights to enhance viewing.
Though the night remained bright in the Tokyo area, meteors could be seen streaking across the skies every two or three minutes at the peak of the storm.
``I only wish I could think up wishes faster,'' said Ikue Oe, a housewife watching the storm with her husband in the Tokyo suburb of Yokohama.
Tens of thousands of tourists swarmed to Doi Inthanon, Thailand's highest peak at 2,565 meters (8,464 feet), and Doi Suthep, another mountain with a famed Buddhist temple on top.
People shrieked and squealed with delight as they glimpsed the night's first shooting star at almost exactly 1 a.m. Wednesday (1800 GMT Tuesday).
But their enjoyment was tempered by the sight of clouds moving in.
Officials said 10,000 people had passed through the national park's gates by 7:30 p.m. Tuesday (1230 GMT), seven hours before the anticipated peak of the promised celestial spectacle.
People huddled in blankets drove in, paid the 20 baht (55 U.S. cents) entrance fee and continued up the mountain, scouting for suitable viewing spots and turning the park into a tent city.
The mountain's actual peak was reserved for dignitaries and scientists.
The crowds that gathered at sites in the Mojave Desert in California were smaller but no less enthusiastic.
The desert's campgrounds, normally empty on November weeknights, were jammed with dozens of stargazers in the early morning hours, many peering through telescopes and whooping and hollering with each dazzling display from the Leonid meteor shower.
Sandra Macika, 36, of San Jose saw about 30 meteors as she watched the skies from Mercy Hot Springs, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) south of Los Banos.
``I could see in front of me big streaks of light falling on the highway,'' she said.
Most Australians who rose early Wednesday were disappointed to find storm clouds blocking the rare display of celestial fireworks.
Sydney Observatory astronomy curator Nick Lomb said that while some astronomers at Parkes Observatory, in northwestern New South Wales, had seen fireballs through the clouds, it was not the meteor storm they had hoped for.
The view apparently was clearer in Norway, where rescuers were swamped with calls from people who spotted what they thought were red distress flares fired from ships in trouble off the southern coast.
``The meteors really changed color, and sometimes they were bright red, so I can understand that people associated them with distress rockets,'' said rescue leader Ben Vikoeren.
Unfortunately for residents of the United States, the Leonid storm on Nov. 17 is expected to begin at 2:43 p.m. Eastern standard time and is likely to last for only an hour or so.
For the United States, therefore, the entire show will be during daylight hours and will be invisible, unless unusually bright bolides, or exploding fireballs, flash through the sky.
People in East Asia, however, will have ringside seats, and if skies are clear, they are likely to witness a great meteor display under ideal conditions: a dark, moonless night.
Although some forecasters predict that there will be an even better Leonid storm the next November _ actually, the second installment of this year's storm _ it will be visible only from Europe and North Africa.
But the storm next month may include some especially bright fireballs, said Joe Rao, a lecturer at New York's Hayden Planetarium, in an article in the November issue of Sky &AMP; Telescope magazine.
Some meteor enthusiasts and astronomers plan to travel to Asia this year and to Europe in 1999 to see the events.
The next chance of a really spectacular Leonid show anywhere on Earth will not come for another century.
Although the United States will not be the best vantage point for Leonid watching on Nov. 17, people willing to get up a few hours before dawn on that day and the next may see more meteorites than they would on a normal night.
The closest approach the Earth will make to the center of the meteoroid swarm is 790,500 miles _ more than three times the distance of the Moon from the Earth, but many dust fragments are likely to stray into collisions with the Earth.
Dr. Donald K. Yeomans of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., who tracks space objects of various kinds, cautioned that spectators in the United States should not expect too much.
``Some people think the Leonid storm this year will be as good as the one in 1966, which was the best one this century, but we think the 1998 shower will be more modest _ perhaps something between 200 and 5,000 meteors per hour,'' Yeomans said.
In 1966, sky watchers clocked a rate of up to 100,000 meteors an hour at the peak of the Leonid storm.
For meteor fans, Rao recommends watching the darkest part of the eastern sky from about 1 a.m. until dawn, on both Nov. 17 and 18.
``Whatever you do, set that alarm clock,'' he advised.
``Not until 2098 or perhaps 2131 will hopes for a Leonid storm again be justified.''
Periodically for at least the last 1,000 years, a spectacular rain of meteors spawned by a passing comet has lighted up the sky, inspiring fear, wonder and admiration.
The meteor storm, which shot hundreds of thousands of blazing streaks across the heavens 33 years ago, is soon due to hit the Earth again, and this time space scientists are concerned about its effects.
The behavior of periodic meteor storms is hard to predict with certainty.
The meteor show forecast for Nov. 17 or 18 might be spectacular or it might be a dud.
But whichever the case, every one of the 600-odd satellites orbiting the Earth _ spacecraft used for communications, military reconnaissance, peace-keeping missions, climate and weather monitoring, astronomy, navigation and science _ will be hit by ultra-high-speed meteor dust.
The possibility of major damage to any of the satellites is regarded by experts as small, but cannot be discounted.
This storm of meteors, called Leonid meteors because they come from the direction of constellation Leo, will be the first to hit the Earth since 1966 when the world's space programs were in their infancy, and its effects on satellite systems are uncertain.
But the fear of possible damage has prompted many meetings by experts in recent months to discuss ways of minimizing hazards, and the operators of important satellites are taking no chances.
Whenever possible, satellites will be turned out of the way of the meteor storm for a few hours and placed in partial electronic hibernation.
Both military and commercial satellite operators said that even during maneuvering, major satellite functions would continue, including the transmission of voice, data and television traffic.
The only human beings who will be in space during the storm are the Russian crew of the Mir space laboratory, which will be unable to get out of the way.
American space officials said they expected the Russians to ride out the storm inside the Soyuz reentry vehicle, docked with Mir, enabling them to make a quick escape if Mir should be badly damaged.
In a normal day, dozens of meteors hit the Earth's atmosphere and burn up.
But besides this steady influx of meteors, there are also occasional showers and meteor storms associated with passing comets.
The Leonid meteors begin as dust or small chunks that break loose from Comet 55P/Tempel-Tuttle whenever it approaches the Sun.
Once every 33 years, the ribbon-like stream of dust and particles trailing the comet usually intersects the Earth's orbit around the Sun, just as the Earth is passing.
Comet 55P/Temple-Tuttle, about two and a half miles in diameter, was discovered in 1865 by Ernst Tempel and Horace Tuttle, who calculated that its orbit around the Sun took a little over 33 years.
The historical record of the Leonid meteor storms goes back at least 1,000 years.
The comet itself has never come close to hitting the Earth.
But particles that break loose from the comet are another matter.
In a report to Congress in May, Dr. William H. Ailor of the Aerospace Corp. of El Segundo, Calif., a consultant to the Air Force on hazards to spacecraft, warned that this year's Leonid storm would pose the most serious meteoroid threat ever faced by the world's spacecraft.
He said, ``Because of the very high speed of the particles _ they will be moving at speeds over 155,000 miles an hour _ the storm poses an even greater and somewhat unknown threat.''
(Astronomers designate objects moving earthward as ``meteoroids.''
When one of these hits the atmosphere and burns up it is called a ``meteor.''
If a meteor survives through the atmosphere and hits the ground it is called a ``meteorite.'')
Showers of Leonid meteors may produce hundreds or thousands of blazing meteors each hour.
Such storms pose no danger to life on the ground because most of the cometary particles are smaller than grains of sand and burn up high in the atmosphere.
Occasionally, larger chunks enter the atmosphere to produce bolides _ fireballs _ that leave luminous trails sometimes persisting for several minutes.
Sometimes bolides explode, producing dazzling flashes of light.
Dr. Ahmet Ozkul of Intelsat, the largest operator of global communications satellites, estimates that the probability of any of the company's 20 satellites being damaged by a Leonid meteoroid in November will be less than 2 percent if no precautionary measures are taken.
But operators intend to do what they can.
One precaution will be to maneuver these two-ton satellites (each valued at about $1.5 million) so as to present smaller targets for meteoroids.
``During the Leonid shower,'' he said, ``most operators will slue their satellites around so that their big solar panels are turned edgewise to the stream of particles.''
Ground controllers of some satellites plan to reduce the volume of commands from ground stations to avoid electronic garbling and erroneous commands that can be caused by the impact of dust particles.
Meteoroid damage to spacecraft has been rare since the mid-1960s when spacecraft became common.
An exception was a European communications satellite named Olympus, which was knocked out of operation in 1993, presumably by meteoroid impact.
(Another recent failure of a communications satellite occurred on May 19, when uncontrolled spinning of Galaxy IV shut down most pagers in the United States for nearly a day.
A spokesman for the Panamsat Corp. of Greenwich, Conn., the owner of the satellite, said it had been determined that its loss had resulted from internal failure, not from a hit by a meteoroid or debris.)
In 1993, astronauts conducting a repair mission on the orbiting Hubble Space Telescope found a hole about the size of a quarter in one of the instrument's dish antennas.
The hole might have been made by a meteoroid, although Dr. John Campbell of the Space Telescope Science Institute, which operates the satellite, said the damage was more likely to have been from the impact of a piece of man-made debris from some space mission.
Space experts consider ``sand blasting'' by micrometeoroid to be a more likely threat than penetrating hits.
Without actually piercing vital parts of spacecraft, the hail of microscopic particles is expected to cause wear and tear during the few hours of the storm, that would be equivalent to the wear and tear of up to three years of normal operation without meteoroid storms.
nn 	Another hazard is electrical.
A microscopic particle hitting the skin of a spacecraft at 44 miles per second is vaporized into plasma _ an ultra-hot, electrically charged gas.
During the plasma's ephemeral existence it may conduct its electrostatic charge to the spacecraft, causing arcing, short circuits and damage to computer chips and circuits.
Sand blasting by comet dust can also damage mirrors, lenses and the optical components used by spy satellites, weather sensors and orbiting astronomical instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope.
``Before, during and after the Leonid storm,'' Campbell said, ``we intend to slue the Hubble telescope around so that its metal back faces the meteoroids, shielding its optics from damage.''
For 10 hours the telescope will be pointed opposite the direction from which the meteors will be coming, he said.
Intelsat will also slue its communications satellites, so that their big solar panels are turned edgewise to the meteoroid stream for about three hours, thereby presenting the smallest possible targets, Ozkul said.
The Intelsat satellites, which carry digital, voice and television signals, operate 22,300 miles high in what are known as geosynchronous orbits, in which each satellite remains permanently over the same spot on the Earth's surface.
Chances of serious damage to Mir are regarded as very small, American experts said, noting that even the space shuttle has been knicked by debris from time to time with no serious effects.
(For example, the shuttle Atlantis was hit both by a meteoroid fragment and a piece of debris in September last year.)
In any case, the big Mir station will not be able to maneuver out of the way.
To be on the safe side, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has delayed the launching of the space shuttle until after the Leonid shower.
Some satellites in low-earth orbits can actually hide from meteoroid storms, Ozkul said.
Some carry enough fuel that they can maneuver into orbits in which the Earth will shield them for a short time from the peak of the meteoroid storm.
``Hiding from the storm would be a judgment call,'' he said, ``because you would use up a lot of precious maneuvering fuel, but it can be done in an emergency,'' Ozkul said.
``We couldn't do it with our geosynchronous satellites, which are 22,300 miles up, but some near-earth satellites could hide behind the Earth long enough to reduce the risk.''
The Aerospace Corp. regards the Leonid shower as a test, from which the world's satellite owners and users will gain useful knowledge.
Some satellites, including the galaxy of Air Force satellites serving the Global Positioning System of navigation, can detect and report meteoroid hits on themselves.
Such information may lead to improved meteoroid protection for future space stations, Ailor said.
Of the roughly 600 active satellites in orbit, half are American, and about half of these are military.
Only ``a handful'' of these satellites will be reoriented, said Maj. Perry L. Nouis of the Air Force, spokesman for the United States Space Command.
Power will be temporarily reduced for some satellite systems to lessen the chance of electrical problems caused by meteoric dust, he said.
On the positive side, Nouis said, ``This year's Leonid storm will give us a lot of data that may be useful for protecting satellites against future showers.''
Chicken Little would love this one.
The Earth is hurtling into the path of a comet called Temple-Tuttle.
On Tuesday, the Earth will enter Temple-Tuttle's debris-strewn backwash and will then, according to many scientists, witness the most intense meteor shower in more than three decades.
The scientists who track Temple-Tuttle do not even call it a shower, they call it a meteor storm.
(While visible in Asia, the storm will be obscured by the sun in North America during its peak hours.)
And in the midst of the storm, among millions of particles moving at roughly 160,000 miles an hour, will be 600 or so man-made satellites, which most people in the industrialized world have come to rely on, wittingly or not, for entertainment, communication and spying on one another.
``This is the first time in the life of our communications-oriented world that we have faced an environmental threat of this scope,'' said Ian Rowe, chief executive of Crestech, a nonprofit group based in Toronto that will track the storm for the Canadian and U.S. governments.
Rowe said the only previous instance of a satellite's being disabled by meteors occurred in 1993 during a shower about one-3,000th the density of the storm predicted for Tuesday.
American consumers felt the impact of a single satellite's malfunctioning in May, when the failure of Galaxy IV disrupted pager service in much of the nation.
If Tuesday's storm seriously damages any satellites, the effects could be even more daunting.
The spy satellites that are peering down at Saddam Hussein could lose their ability to spot movements of his troops.
Television channels could become static.
Those relying on satellite navigation could become lost.
Corporate networks could shut down.
Even the international telephone system, which mostly relies on undersea cables, could be crippled.
AT&AMP;T Corp. says there are at least 14 countries, mostly in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, that can be reached by telephone only by satellite.
The satellite industry, however, and some of the companies that rely on it, have a different reaction: no big deal.
``We don't think this will be much of an issue,'' said Daniel Marcus, a spokesman for Panamsat, the world's largest private satellite company, which is controlled by the Hughes Electronics unit of General Motors Corp. ``It should be a nonevent.''
And Stephen Stott, director for satellite engineering at Intelsat, the international satellite consortium, said, ``Most of the industry is of the opinion that we do not expect any major problems.''
After all, the odds say that the meteors _ known as the Leonids because they seem to come from the direction of the constellation Leo _ have about as much chance of seriously damaging the world's satellites as Mark McGwire does of smashing the windshield of the sole car in an otherwise empty parking lot with a blast from inside a Major League ballpark.
In addition to a physical threat, though, the Leonids, generally smaller than grains of sand, also pose the risk of creating strong electrical charges on satellites, potentially damaging sensitive components.
So while the big satellite companies play down the threat, they are still taking steps to protect their property.
Deploying a commercial communications satellite can cost around $250 million.
The companies plan to turn solar arrays so that their edges face the oncoming meteors, presenting a smaller target.
They plan to shut down some systems, to keep operations simple.
But Alastair Hamilton, who is responsible for distributing Cable News Network as Turner Broadcasting System's senior vice president for worldwide distribution technology, said some viewers still might lose their signal for a few minutes Tuesday as satellites recover from short circuits.
He added, however, that he could not get too agitated because there is so little he can do.
``At the end of the day, the satellites are up there and there is no way to hide them,'' he said.
``So we're going to really see what happens.
And the prevailing opinion is that this is not really something that we should be losing a huge amount of sleep over.''
That is not quite how Col. Mike Kelly is handling the situation.
That is because he works for the owner of about a quarter of the world's satellites: the U.S. government.
As deputy commander of the 50th Operations Group at Schriever Air Force Base near Colorado Springs, Colo., Kelly helps run about 60 Air Force satellites worth about $40 billion.
Kelly's charges provide navigation services, communications for officials including the president, and help in detecting missile launches.
While Marcus of Panamsat and Gregory Clark, president of Loral Space Communications, another big private satellite company, said they expected no impact on their services, Kelly is more pessimistic.
``I think it's very unlikely that we'll lose a spacecraft on the 17th,'' he said.
He added, however, ``I think it's probable that we'll see some electrical problems that we'll have to recover.''
He said that could take anywhere from a few minutes to several days.
(Kelly's group does not manage any of the optical spy satellites, he said.
Those are generally handled by the ultra-secretive National Reconnaissance Office, which refused to comment.)
In contrast to the private satellite companies, however, the Air Force, according to Kelly, has decided not to change its normal operating procedures substantially, except to be especially watchful.
``We don't know ahead of time how serious it will be,'' Kelly said.
``If it turns out to be a nothingburger, I'll be one of the happiest people in Colorado.''
And Ken Kirkhart will be one of the happiest people in Virginia.
Kirkhart is vice president for production at USA Today, which uses 33 satellite-linked printing plants in the United States.
Each plant is linked to two satellites, Kirkhart said, but he is still nervous.
``It's a crapshoot, you just don't know,'' he said.
``There's nothing more you can do.
There's not time.
The only thing you could do to put yourself in a risk-free situation is to put in a terrestrial system, and to do that to 33 sites, well, you've dealt with the phone companies.''
The New York Times, which uses a satellite to communicate with eight of its 13 printing plants, has a backup plan to use terrestrial, or ground-based, communications.
But rather than link directly to all eight sites in the event of a satellite problem, The Times would link only to some of them and fly film for the printing plates to the rest, according to Catherine Mathis, director for investor relations for New York Times Co.
She added that the printing plants could also tune in to a backup satellite.
Dow Jones &AMP; Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal, was one of the few companies to disclose the potential problems posed by the storm in a filing with federal regulators, though a Dow Jones spokesman refused to discuss his company's contingency plans.
The Iridium satellite telephone venture, which is controlled by Motorola Inc., also mentioned the Leonids in a recent federal filing, though the company declined to discuss the subject.
``There is no relevant experience we can use to base an assessment of the damage, if any, that the storm might cause to low-earth-orbit satellites,'' the Iridium filing said, referring to the sort of satellites it uses.
``But such damage could be significant.''
But whether the real probability of a satellite's being hit is one in 5,000, as some industry experts predict, or one in 100, as Rowe estimates, perhaps the only thing that could provide true peace of mind would be no meteor storm at all.
``In theory, you can walk across a freeway in the middle of the night and get away with it,'' he said, by way of analogy.
``But you might get K.O.'d by a truck.''
Chicken Little would love this one.
The Earth is hurtling into the path of a comet called Temple-Tuttle.
On Tuesday, the Earth will enter Temple-Tuttle's debris-strewn backwash and will then, according to many scientists, witness the most intense meteor shower in more than three decades.
The scientists who track Temple-Tuttle do not even call it a shower, they call it a meteor storm.
(While visible in Asia, the storm will be obscured by the sun in North America during its peak hours.)
And in the midst of the storm, among millions of particles moving at roughly 160,000 miles an hour, will be 600 or so man-made satellites, which most people in the industrialized world have come to rely on, wittingly or not, for entertainment, communication and spying on one another.
``This is the first time in the life of our communications-oriented world that we have faced an environmental threat of this scope,'' said Ian Rowe, chief executive of Crestech, a nonprofit group based in Toronto that will track the storm for the Canadian and U.S. governments.
Rowe said the only previous instance of a satellite's being disabled by meteors occurred in 1993 during a shower about one-3,000th the density of the storm predicted for Tuesday.
American consumers felt the impact of a single satellite's malfunctioning in May, when the failure of Galaxy IV disrupted pager service in much of the nation.
If Tuesday's storm seriously damages any satellites, the effects could be even more daunting.
The spy satellites that are peering down at Saddam Hussein could lose their ability to spot movements of his troops.
Television channels could become static.
Those relying on satellite navigation could become lost.
Corporate networks could shut down.
Even the international telephone system, which mostly relies on undersea cables, could be crippled.
AT&AMP;T Corp. says there are at least 14 countries, mostly in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, that can be reached by telephone only by satellite.
The satellite industry, however, and some of the companies that rely on it, have a different reaction: no big deal.
``We don't think this will be much of an issue,'' said Daniel Marcus, a spokesman for Panamsat, the world's largest private satellite company, which is controlled by the Hughes Electronics unit of General Motors Corp. ``It should be a nonevent.''
And Stephen Stott, director for satellite engineering at Intelsat, the international satellite consortium, said, ``Most of the industry is of the opinion that we do not expect any major problems.''
After all, the odds say that the meteors _ known as the Leonids because they seem to come from the direction of the constellation Leo _ have about as much chance of seriously damaging the world's satellites as Mark McGwire does of smashing the windshield of the sole car in an otherwise empty parking lot with a blast from inside a Major League ballpark.
In addition to a physical threat, though, the Leonids, generally smaller than grains of sand, also pose the risk of creating strong electrical charges on satellites, potentially damaging sensitive components.
So while the big satellite companies play down the threat, they are still taking steps to protect their property.
Deploying a commercial communications satellite can cost around $250 million.
The companies plan to turn solar arrays so that their edges face the oncoming meteors, presenting a smaller target.
They plan to shut down some systems, to keep operations simple.
But Alastair Hamilton, who is responsible for distributing Cable News Network as Turner Broadcasting System's senior vice president for worldwide distribution technology, said some viewers still might lose their signal for a few minutes Tuesday as satellites recover from short circuits.
He added, however, that he could not get too agitated because there is so little he can do.
``At the end of the day, the satellites are up there and there is no way to hide them,'' he said.
``So we're going to really see what happens.
And the prevailing opinion is that this is not really something that we should be losing a huge amount of sleep over.''
That is not quite how Col. Mike Kelly is handling the situation.
That is because he works for the owner of about a quarter of the world's satellites: the U.S. government.
As deputy commander of the 50th Operations Group at Schriever Air Force Base near Colorado Springs, Colo., Kelly helps run about 60 Air Force satellites worth about $40 billion.
Kelly's charges provide navigation services, communications for officials including the president, and help in detecting missile launches.
While Marcus of Panamsat and Gregory Clark, president of Loral Space Communications, another big private satellite company, said they expected no impact on their services, Kelly is more pessimistic.
``I think it's very unlikely that we'll lose a spacecraft on the 17th,'' he said.
He added, however, ``I think it's probable that we'll see some electrical problems that we'll have to recover.''
He said that could take anywhere from a few minutes to several days.
(Kelly's group does not manage any of the optical spy satellites, he said.
Those are generally handled by the ultra-secretive National Reconnaissance Office, which refused to comment.)
In contrast to the private satellite companies, however, the Air Force, according to Kelly, has decided not to change its normal operating procedures substantially, except to be especially watchful.
``We don't know ahead of time how serious it will be,'' Kelly said.
``If it turns out to be a nothingburger, I'll be one of the happiest people in Colorado.''
And Ken Kirkhart will be one of the happiest people in Virginia.
Kirkhart is vice president for production at USA Today, which uses 33 satellite-linked printing plants in the United States.
Each plant is linked to two satellites, Kirkhart said, but he is still nervous.
``It's a crapshoot, you just don't know,'' he said.
``There's nothing more you can do.
There's not time.
The only thing you could do to put yourself in a risk-free situation is to put in a terrestrial system, and to do that to 33 sites, well, you've dealt with the phone companies.''
The New York Times, which uses a satellite to communicate with eight of its 13 printing plants, has a backup plan to use terrestrial, or ground-based, communications.
But rather than link directly to all eight sites in the event of a satellite problem, The Times would link only to some of them and fly film for the printing plates to the rest, according to Catherine Mathis, director for investor relations for New York Times Co.
She added that the printing plants could also tune in to a backup satellite.
Dow Jones &AMP; Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal, was one of the few companies to disclose the potential problems posed by the storm in a filing with federal regulators, though a Dow Jones spokesman refused to discuss his company's contingency plans.
The Iridium satellite telephone venture, which is controlled by Motorola Inc., also mentioned the Leonids in a recent federal filing, though the company declined to discuss the subject.
``There is no relevant experience we can use to base an assessment of the damage, if any, that the storm might cause to low-earth-orbit satellites,'' the Iridium filing said, referring to the sort of satellites it uses.
``But such damage could be significant.''
But whether the real probability of a satellite's being hit is one in 5,000, as some industry experts predict, or one in 100, as Rowe estimates, perhaps the only thing that could provide true peace of mind would be no meteor storm at all.
``In theory, you can walk across a freeway in the middle of the night and get away with it,'' he said, by way of analogy.
``But you might get K.O.'d by a truck.''
By the time the earth collides with a dense swarm of meteoroids Tuesday night to unleash what may be the heaviest meteor bombardment since 1966, many orbiting satellites will have maneuvered into positions facing away from the storm to avoid damage.
But scores of instruments on the ground and aboard airplanes will be aimed right at the blazing trails left by the meteors, gathering information about these visitors from space and what they do to the upper atmosphere as they burn up.
Astrophysicists, atmospheric scientists and others have been readying their experiments for a year or more in preparation for Tuesday night's expected Leonid Meteor storm, so named because the meteors appear to be coming from the direction of the constellation Leo.
The meteors are fragments, most of them microscopic in size, of Comet 55P/Tempel-Tuttle.
Although the earth encounters Leonid meteors every year on about this date, only once in approximately every 33 years does the earth intersect the swarm at a crowded point in the wake of the comet after the comet has made its closest approach to the sun.
This year scientists expect many Leonid meteors to be made of fresh material knocked loose from the comet, making them better indicators of the comet's composition than fragments that have aged.
In 1966 the Leonids put on a spectacular show, with tens of thousands of meteors blazing through the sky each hour.
Many astronomers believe there is a good chance that this year's display will be just as spectacular, at least for viewers in East Asia, which will be in nighttime darkness during the few hours when the swarm is at its peak.
Other experts, including Dr. Donald K. Yeomans of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., guess that the storm will be much more modest, producing only 200 to 5,000 meteors per hour.
In any case, meteor experts from several countries have converged on Asia to measure and study the Leonids as they hit the atmosphere at speeds of about 45 miles per second.
Among them are teams of specialists who will fly aboard two airplanes _ a prop-jet Electra owned by the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., and an Air Force KC-135 jet.
Both are modified with upward-looking windows permitting photography, spectroscopy, laser probes and other types of observation.
For about eight hours starting before midnight in East Asia, the two airplanes, temporarily based in Okinawa, will fly in formation with each other.
The NCAR Electra, the slower of the two, will fly back and forth along a straight track at about 25,000 feet, while the Air Force KC-135, flying at about 40,000 feet, will fly an elliptical course around the Electra's path.
Instruments aboard both planes, a known distance apart, will measure the angles between their respective views of a given meteor trail, and triangulation will allow them to calculate the altitude of the trail.
The scientists are not worried about being hit by meteors, most of which burn up in the mesosphere far above them, 50 to 65 miles high.
Most of the fragments are smaller than grains of sand, and only very rarely is a meteor large enough and dense enough to survive its white-hot trip through the air all the way to the ground.
The lead experiment on the Electra, conducted by Dr. Chester S. Gardner and his team from the University of Illinois, will seek to measure the amount of iron dumped into the atmosphere by meteors, and to measure the temperatures of meteor trails.
&QL;  nn 	The group has developed a new type of lidar (which stands for ``light detection and ranging'') for the experiment.
A lidar instrument, similar in principle to a radar except that it uses light instead of radio waves, sends a powerful laser beam directly upward, where it excites target atoms in the thin atmosphere sensitive to the laser's wavelength.
They emit light, and a telescope, aimed at exactly the spot where atoms excited by the laser are glowing measures and analyzes the light.
Gardner's group has built a pair of lidars based on crystals of alexandrite, a mineral that can lase at any of a range of wavelengths, depending on how it is ``seeded'' by a small diode laser of the desired wavelength.
Using a complex optical system, the University of Illinois group has tuned its lidars to two of the wavelengths of ionized iron _ the form that iron assumes at very high temperatures.
By sending up beams of ultraviolet light at 372 and 374 nanometers, the group expects to excite iron ions to fluoresce in visible light that can be detected and measured by the two telescopes aboard the airplane.
The ratio of fluorescence triggered by the two laser beams will reveal the temperature of the high-altitude iron atoms and therefore the meteor trail.
This laser thermometer is expected to improve understanding of the chemistry of the upper atmosphere and the effects of meteors on it.
``We can't aim the lidars in the plane.
They always point straight up,'' Gardner said in an interview, ``so we have to wait for a meteor trail to pass directly overhead through out beam.
On an ordinary night we have to wait five hours or more for a single trail, but during this storm we hope the intervals between overhead meteors will be much shorter and give us much more information.''
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration is in charge of the airborne study, which is also supported by the National Science Foundation and the Air Force.
One of the objects of the program is to determine how a meteor's mass is related to its brightness.
In another part of the program, spectrometers will analyze light from meteor trails (which often persist for several seconds) in terms of their chemical composition.
Meteoroids are broadly classed either as silicates (especially olivine, pyroxene and plagioclase) or metallic meteorites made mostly of iron and nickel, but there are many variations.
One of the experiments aboard the Electra is a wide-angle camera that can record images of the glow emitted by excited sodium atoms in the atmosphere.
The sodium content of the atmosphere is expected to be significantly increased by the arrival of meteors, and sodium at high altitude reacts with ozone.
Scientists hope to learn whether meteor storms degrade the ozone shield protecting life on earth from harmful ultraviolet radiation.
Meanwhile, the operators of scores of scientific, military and commercial satellites have prepared the best they can for the sand-blasting the meteor storm may produce.
Solar panels have been turned edgewise to present small targets to meteoroids, and some electrical systems have been shut down to minimize the chances of destructive short circuits triggered by impacts.
A satellite regarded as particularly endangered by the Leonids is the Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) designed and built by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory to study charged particles coming from the sun and beyond the solar system.
Launched last year, ACE is now one million miles from the earth in the direction of the sun _ a very vulnerable position close to the center of the comet's wake.
NASA is reorienting the spacecraft to present a small target, but Dr. Mary Chiu, ACE's program manager, said ``we're crossing our fingers in hopes of an uneventful day on the 17th.''
The much-anticipated storm of Leonid meteors swept over Earth on Tuesday, a bit ahead of schedule, leaving many sky watchers disappointed but others dazzled by fireballs as bright as the full moon.
The Leonids, so named because they appear to come from the constellation Leo, flash through the sky in large numbers every year about this date, but once in about every 33 years the swarm is often so dense that tens or hundreds of meteors are seen each hour.
The last such storm was in 1966, and a good show was expected this year.
Another good Leonid display might occur a year from now, astronomers have forecast.
The Leonid meteors, most of them smaller than grains of sand, are fragments knocked loose from Comet 55P/Temple-Tuttle each time it makes a close approach to the Sun every 33 years.
Reports from regions that were in nighttime darkness Tuesday during the peak of the meteor storm suggested wide variations in the storm's apparent intensity.
But nowhere did the reported rate of meteor sightings greatly exceed 2,000 per hour _ barely one-tenth the rate at which meteors hit the atmosphere during the great 1966 Leonid storm.
There were no immediate reports of damage to any of the roughly 600 satellites orbiting the Earth that are used for communications, military surveillance, climate and weather monitoring, astronomy and navigation.
The odds of any given satellite being hit by a meteoroid were calculated as about one in a thousand _ a small risk but one that caused some concern because of the high value of many satellites.
Satellite experts said that some damage might take days to detect, but that satellites generally seemed to have escaped disabling harm.
Forecasts that the Leonids would put on their best show over Japan and China were only partly realized; according to news agency reports, people in parts of Thailand saw many bright meteor trails, while the view from Tokyo was disappointing.
The meteor display was unexpectedly good over southern Europe, and came several hours earlier than predicted.
The Harvard-Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass., which is a worldwide clearinghouse for reports from astronomers, said that observers at La Palma in the Canary Islands saw about 2,000 meteors per hour at the peak.
But observers in Portugal counted only a few more than 300 per hour.
Dr. Brian Marsden of the astrophysical observatory said the Leonid display included an unusually high proportion of fireballs, a few of which reached the brightness of the full moon during their speedy crossing of the sky.
Russia's Interfax news agency reported that a meteorite weighing several ounces was seen to land during the Leonid storm in front of a car in the city of Rustavi in Georgia.
But Marsden expressed doubt that the meteorite was part of the storm.
``We sometimes see sporadic meteorites during these storms that are not related to the main body of meteoroids,'' he said.
``This sounds like one.''
Only very rarely is a meteoroid large enough and dense enough to survive its fiery trip through the atmosphere and reach the ground.
Old records suggest, however, that as many as half a dozen people (and one dog) may have been killed by meteors during the course of human history.
But there is ample geological evidence that huge meteoroids have hit the Earth in the distant past, and probably will again.
NATIONAL FORECAST &QL; 	Low pressure will move northeast over the northern Great Lakes Thursday.
A conveyor belt of cold, moist air to the northwest of the low's track will cause moderate to heavy snow over northern Minnesota to persist into the afternoon.
An additional few inches of snow will accumulate after sunrise, bringing storm totals to nearly a foot in some places.
Patchy light snow and flurries will linger over the eastern Dakotas and the rest of Minnesota.
A cold front extending south from the low will cross the Ohio and middle Mississippi valleys.
Scattered showers and isolated thunderstorms will precede the front.
Given that moist air from the Gulf of Mexico is limited, heavy rain is unlikely and rainfall totals will generally remain below one half inch.
Milder air surging north ahead of the front will encounter stubborn chilly air in the northern Appalachians.
As the warm air is forced to rise above the cooler air near the ground, clouds and pockets of drizzle will develop over the Northeastern states, aided by damp air penetrating inland from the Atlantic.
Showers will develop Thursday night as the front approaches.
Although a rogue shower is possible, most of the Southeast will remain dry through Thursday evening.
Florida will be partly sunny and very warm, with near record warmth in southern sections.
A stream of mild, moist air from the Pacific Ocean will direct an area of rain onto the Northwest coast with snow falling in the Cascades.
Meanwhile, high pressure over the Great Basin will sponsor sunny, tranquil conditions from the central Rockies to southern California.
Focus: Eye Protection 	For three hours on Tuesday, no images were received from the satellite that normally provides constant coverage for most of North America and the Atlantic.
Technicians had repositioned the mirror that is used to make images of the earth so that the fusillade of tiny particles from the Leonid meteor shower would be less likely to damage the eye in the sky.
There are five geostationary satellites spaced approximately 70 degrees of longitude apart that are essential tools for monitoring global weather changes.
All of these satellites came through Tuesday's meteor shower unscathed.
Swiss Air flight 111 crashed off Nova Scotia on Sept. 2, 1998 killing all 129 passengers and crew.
The cause has not been determined, but there was extreme heat damage to the front of the aircraft and it is suspected that an in-flight entertainment system had electrical problems.
Swiss Air, while insisting that the system was installed correctly, has disconnected the system in other aircraft as a precaution.
The airline immediately offered $20,000 to families of the victims and, having opted out of a $75,000 liability cap, began work on a plan to provide compensation of approximately $137,000 per family.
All 229 people aboard Swissair's New York-to-Geneva flight 111 died when the MD-11 airliner plunged into the sea off the Nova Scotia coast on September 2, 1998.
Pilots reported smoke in the cockpit 16 minutes before the crash.
The specific cause of the tragedy was never determined, but suspicions are that an electrical short caused a fire.
Following the crash, Swissair voluntarily disconnected its video-on-demand systems because they were connected to a power supply routed through the cockpit.
The FAA ordered inspection of two cockpit switches in all MD-11's and is considering whether there should be a life expectancy for some airplane wiring.
Swissair flight 111 crashed off Newfoundland on September 2, 1998 after leaving  New York for Switzerland.
The pilots reported smoke in the cockpit 16 minutes  before the crash.
All 229 people aboard died.
Swissair is compensating and  further assisting the grieving families.
Eventually, over 90 percent of the  plane, a 7-year-old MD-11 which last had major maintenance 13 months earlier,  was recovered.
Wreckage showed evidence of high heat and heat damaged wiring  above the cockpit area but investigators remain unsure of its cause.
The  planes' in-flight entertainment system is suspect.
A final determination of the  crashes cause is still far off.
Swissair announced that it was disconnecting the Interactive Flight Technologies  entertainment system installed on its remaining MD-11s and Boeing 747s after  investigators of the crash of Swissair Flight 111 found that the wires of the  state-of-the- art system were heavily heat damaged.
The flight, bound for Geneva  from New York, crashed off the coast of Nova Scotia, killing all 229 people onboard.
Swissair is among the carriers that has opted out of a $75,000 liability cap for  people killed or injured during international flights and is looking into making  payments of up to $137,000 to the families of the victims.
Swissair lawyers are looking at procedures for making payments of up to around dlrs 137,000 to families of those killed in last month's crash off Nova Scotia, a spokesman for the airline said Tuesday.
The compensation payments correspond to Swissair's liability under its general conditions of carriage and are independent of any responsibility for the crash, spokesman Martin Kaspar said.
No date could be given for payments, which would be deductible from a future settlement, he added.
Exact entitlements have yet to be established.
All 229 passengers and crew aboard Flight 111 from New York to Geneva were killed when the airliner plunged into the sea off Peggy's Cove.
The causes of the crash have not been determined.
Immediately after the crash, Swissair offered families an immediate dlrs 20,000 payment to cover their expenses.
More than 130 families have taken up that offer, Kaspar said.
Swissair is among carriers that over the last few years have opted out of a dlrs 75,000 liability cap for people killed or injured during international flights.
The airline and manufacturers Boeing have already been served with a dlrs 50 million lawsuit by former boxing champion Jake LaMotta, who lost his son.
The lawsuit claims the companies should have known about wiring problems on the McDonnell Douglas aircraft _ a possible cause of the accident _ and did little to correct them.
&UR; (gm)
Hundreds of thousands of pieces of Swissair Flight 111, representing 60 percent of the plane, have now been retrieved from the ocean floor, but an explanation for the Sept. 2 crash remains far off, investigators said Tuesday.
Benoit Bouchard, chairman of Canada's Transportation Safety Board, predicted it would take longer than the normal 12 months to complete a final report on the crash off the Nova Scotia coast that killed all 229 people aboard the New York-to-Geneva flight.
``It's a very complicated and complex investigation,'' Bouchard said.
``But I remain optimistic that we will identify any safety deficiencies that may exist.''
As of two weeks ago, only 10 percent of the wrecked MD-11 jet had been recovered.
Then a barge equipped with an underwater crane was brought in to scoop up large pieces of the plane.
Vic Gerden, the chief crash investigator, said the operation was a success, retrieving all three of the engines, parts of the fuselage and cockpit, as well as electronic circuit boards and bundles of wiring that will be examined for possible clues into the source of smoke that the pilots detected 16 minutes before the crash.
Some debris from the cockpit area shows signs of extreme heat, but investigators have yet to establish any details about the cause or extent of a possible fire on board.
``We're really just now at the stage where we have quite a bit of aircraft to examine,'' Gerden said.
He said investigators still don't know at what angle the plane hit the water and hope that digital controls in the engines may give an indication of the plane's speed at impact.
The impact was so severe that all the victims' bodies were badly fragmented, complicating the identification process.
Dr. John Butt, Nova Scotia's chief medical examiner, joined investigators at a news briefing in Halifax on Tuesday to report that remains of 134 people have now been identified, mostly through matching with DNA samples provided by relatives.
He said 228 distinct DNA patterns have now been detected from the remains, indicating remains from all but one of the people on board has been found.
Gerden said the heavy-lifting barge, the Sea Sorceress, has completed its work, and will be replaced this week by a boat normally used to drag up scallops.
Its task will be to retrieve the smaller debris that remains on the ocean floor, about 180 feet (55 meters) below the surface.
Though the final report is probably more than a year away, Bouchard said the safety board would issue provisional recommendations at any point when investigators felt they had detected a safety hazard, 	``We will do everything we can to reduce risks associated with flying,'' he said.
Hundreds of thousands of pieces of Swissair Flight 111, representing 60 percent of the plane, have now been retrieved from the ocean floor, but an explanation for the Sept. 2 crash remains far off, investigators said Tuesday.
Benoit Bouchard, chairman of Canada's Transportation Safety Board, predicted it would take longer than the normal 12 months to complete a final report on the crash off the Nova Scotia coast that killed all 229 people aboard the New York-to-Geneva flight.
``It's a very complicated and complex investigation,'' Bouchard said.
``But I remain optimistic that we will identify any safety deficiencies that may exist.''
As of two weeks ago, only 10 percent of the wrecked MD-11 jet had been recovered.
Then a barge equipped with an underwater crane was brought in to scoop up large pieces of the plane.
Vic Gerden, the chief crash investigator, said the operation was a success, retrieving all three of the engines, parts of the fuselage and cockpit, as well as electronic circuit boards and bundles of wiring that will be examined for possible clues into the source of smoke that the pilots detected 16 minutes before the crash.
Some debris from the cockpit area shows signs of extreme heat, but investigators have yet to establish any details about the cause or extent of a possible fire on board.
``We're really just now at the stage where we have quite a bit of aircraft to examine,'' Gerden said.
He said investigators still don't know at what angle the plane hit the water and hope that digital controls in the engines may give an indication of the plane's speed at impact.
The impact was so severe that all the victims' bodies were badly fragmented, complicating the identification process.
Dr. John Butt, Nova Scotia's chief medical examiner, joined investigators at a news briefing in Halifax on Tuesday to report that remains of 134 people have now been identified, mostly through matching with DNA samples provided by relatives.
He said 228 distinct DNA patterns have now been detected from the remains, indicating remains from all but one of the people on board has been found.
Gerden said the heavy-lifting barge, the Sea Sorceress, has completed its work, and will be replaced this week by a boat normally used to drag up scallops.
Its task will be to retrieve the smaller debris that remains on the ocean floor, about 180 feet (55 meters) below the surface.
Though the final report is probably more than a year away, Bouchard said the safety board would issue provisional recommendations at any point when investigators felt they had detected a safety hazard, 	``We will do everything we can to reduce risks associated with flying,'' he said.
Temperatures rose to 300 degrees (570 degrees F) without leaving traces of fire in the front part of Swissair Flight 111 before it crashed, an in-house publication of the airline said Thursday.
There still is no indication of the source of the heat, said the publication, ``News.''
It described as ``pure speculation'' theories that a fire was caused by an electrical short that ignited insulation material.
The MD-11 airliner flying from New York to Geneva crashed Sept. 2 off the coast of Canada, killing all 229 people aboard.
The crew reported smoke in the cockpit 16 minutes before the crash.
Investigators, who have found that high heat melted plastic in the first 40 feet (12 meters) of the plane, were surprised that the heat was in the upper part of the plane and not below the cockpit floor, where most of the wiring is located, the newsletter said.
Previous reports have said the temperature was high enough to damage plastic, but the newsletter gave the first indication of just how hot it was.
The newsletter, published for the staff by the airline's parent SAirGroup, said the findings by Canadian investigators were disclosed by Hans Ulrich Beyeler, Swissair head of technology, in a speech to the Technical Society of Zurich.
Last week, the airline announced it was switching off a state-of-the-art entertainment system on its remaining 15 MD-11s and three Boeing 747s as a precautionary measure.
Swissair said the video-on-demand system for first and business class was being disconnected from a power supply network routed through the cockpit because it was nonessential and because that is the area where the investigation is concentrated.
The newsletter said 90 percent of the wreckage has been recovered.
Swissair ``did everything correctly'' in installing a state-of-the-art entertainment system switched off last month in the wake of the crash of Flight 111, the airline's chief executive said in an interview published Sunday.
Swissair acted voluntarily to disconnect the video-on-demand system, connected to a power supply routed through the cockpit, after Canadian investigators detected signs of heat damage on wiring and other debris from the ceiling around the cockpit of the MD-11.
``It's the leading product, customers liked it, and its installation was correctly certified,'' CEO Jeffrey Katz was quoted as saying in the Zurich weekly SonntagsZeitung.
``As far as we know now, we did everything correctly.''
Swissair is the only customer for the system, manufactured by Phoenix-based Interactive Flight Technologies Inc.
The plane bound from New York to Geneva crashed Sept. 2 off the coast of Nova Scotia, killing all 229 people on board.
The cause of the crash has yet to be determined.
Swissair ``did everything correctly'' in installing a state-of-the-art entertainment system switched off last month in the wake of the crash of Flight 111, the airline's chief executive said in an interview published Sunday.
Swissair acted voluntarily to disconnect the video-on-demand system, connected to a power supply routed through the cockpit, after Canadian investigators detected signs of heat damage on wiring and other debris from the ceiling around the cockpit of the MD-11.
``It's the leading product, customers liked it, and its installation was correctly certified,'' CEO Jeffrey Katz was quoted as saying in the Zurich weekly SonntagsZeitung.
``As far as we know now, we did everything correctly.''
Swissair is the only customer for the system, manufactured by Phoenix-based Interactive Flight Technologies Inc.
The plane, 5th graf pvs.
&UR; (gm)
The Federal Aviation Administration said on Thursday that it would consider whether airliners can get too old to fly, which would be a change from its longstanding belief that jets are eternal if they are inspected often enough.
As a first step, the agency said it would expand a program that focuses on the problems of aging aircraft.
That program, which has been limited to a study of the skeleton and skin of aging aircraft, was started after an accident in 1988 in which the fuselage of an Aloha Airlines jetliner peeled apart like a sardine can.
On Thursday morning, Rodney Slater, the secretary of transportation, announced a plan to evaluate nonstructural systems, including wiring and hydraulic systems.
``Today's U.S. fleet has an average age of nearly 16 years,'' Slater said.
``Ten years from now, a larger and older fleet will have an average age of 18 to 20 years.''
Some planes are much older than 16.
Northwest Airlines said earlier this year that it expects to fly its DC-9's for 42 years.
Once a plane has been manufactured, nearly all FAA requirements are based on aircraft performance, with the agency ordering inspection or repair after it gets reports from planes in the field or in the shop that parts have deteriorated.
This approach may not suffice for wiring, though, because some wires are hard to see.
And even if the wires are visually inspected, deterioration is hard to find, experts say.
Wiring in older planes has been under intense scrutiny by the agency since the explosion of TWA Flight 800, a 25-year-old Boeing 747, off Long Island on July 17, 1996.
The crash, which killed 230 people, led to the discovery of wiring problems in various older planes.
Jane Garvey, the administrator of the FAA, said the agency would undertake a five-year study of older aircraft systems, in part to determine ``whether or not there should be a life expectancy for some of the wiring.''
In practice, experts say, if airlines had to replace a lot of wiring on older planes it would be a death sentence for the planes.
One of the few components automatically replaced at a certain age is the commercial airline pilot; they have to retire at 60.
In response to a question, Ms. Garvey said it was not clear where ``older'' began.
Asked about Swissair Flight 111, a 7-year-old MD-11 that crashed off Nova Scotia on Sept. 2, she said she was not clear whether planes that age would be covered by the new program.
Ms. Garvey and other aviation officials confirmed on Thursday that they were interested in whether mylar insulation used on that plane may have encouraged the spread of fires in other accidents.
But a spokesman for the Transportation Safety Board of Canada, which is in charge of the investigation of the Swissair crash, said the Mylar insulation recovered from the plane did not show heat damage.
The Washington Post reported on Thursday that investigators were interested in the insulation blankets, although there is no evidence that they played a role in the Swissair fire and subsequent crash, which killed all 229 people aboard.
The Boeing Company recommended a year ago that the blankets be replaced at the next major maintenance overhaul.
But Hans Klaus, a spokesman for Swissair, said that the plane that crashed had not had a major overhaul since that recommendation was made, and that it had its last overhaul in August 1997, 13 months before the crash.
Replacement of the blankets has not been required by the FAA or any other agency, Klaus said, adding that Swissair has not decided whether to replace the blankets on its other planes.
About 15 large airlines that fly MD-11's and other McDonnell Douglas planes began a two-day meeting on Thursday in Long Beach, Calif., where the planes were manufactured.
They are going over the approximately 20 outstanding recommendations from the manufacturer on smoke and fire problems to determine whether any of the work should be accelerated in response to the Swissair crash, said a Boeing spokesman, John Dern.
In Halifax, Nova Scotia, a spokesman for Canada's Transportation Safety Board, Jim Harris, said that some of the blankets had been recovered but that they showed no fire damage.
Less than 10 percent of the plane has been recovered so far, and very little of that was from the cockpit area, which is what most interests the investigators, he said.
Harris said salvage workers in the Canadian and United States navies planned to begin raising small pieces of wreckage in larger batches soon in an effort to recover more before the weather made such work impossible.
Divers have recovered a computer that controls one of the three engines, he said, and investigators have sent it to Pratt &AMP; Whitney, in East Hartford, Conn., in the hope that technicians there can retrieve data from its memory chips.
Investigators looking into the crash last month of Swissair Flight 111 off the coast of Nova Scotia have found ``heat damage'' in wires from the plane's in-flight entertainment system, prompting the airline to disconnect the system on all of its jumbo jets, Swissair officials said Thursday.
The Transportation Safety Board of Canada said in a statement that there was not enough information to determine whether the heat damage was a possible source of the smoke that the pilots reported in the cockpit shortly before the crash, or whether it was ``merely the byproduct of other events.''
One aviation safety official called it ``a circumstantial clue.''
The entertainment system installed by Swissair is apparently not used by any other airline, although the Federal Aviation Administration _ which approved the installation for Swissair _ said that if it found an airline using the same equipment, it would ask that the system be turned off.
The system is installed on the first-class and business-class seats of Swissair's 15 surviving MD-11s and its three 747s.
It includes a video screen that unfolds from the armrest like a tray table and can be used by a passenger to watch a variety of movies or play casino-style games.
A spokeswoman for the airline, Jackie Pash, stressed that investigators had not determined what role, if any, the system played in the crash.
``People are going to immediately think this is a cause of 111, and that has not been determined at all,'' she said.
``Swissair is interested in taking any precautionary measures, as you can imagine.''
About 70 percent of the plane has been recovered, and work is continuing to find more of it.
From the parts that have been recovered, investigators have found that much of the heat damage is concentrated in an area above the ceiling, over the wall that divides the cockpit from the first-class cabin.
Jim Harris, a spokesman for the Transportation Safety Board, said that the forward area, the area that is of the greatest interest to investigators, is also the most badly shattered, apparently having hit first.
The investigators recently identified wiring from the entertainment system as being heat-damaged and coming from that area over the wall.
The plane crashed on Sept. 2, on a flight from Kennedy International Airport in New York to Switzerland, killing all 229 people aboard.
The pilots had reported smoke in the cockpit 16 minutes before the crash.
Investigators have avoided using the word ``fire,'' saying instead that components are heat-damaged.
The system was designed and manufactured by Interactive Flight Technologies of Phoenix, a company that subsequently got out of the business because it could not make additional sales.
A spokeswoman, Marsha Malone, said Thursday that she could not give any information about the system installed on the Swissair planes.
Les Dorr, a spokesman for the FAA, said his agency had inspected one Swissair MD-11, concentrating on the wiring in the forward part of the plane, including the entertainment system, and that Swissair itself had inspected three more that were undergoing maintenance.
No safety problems were found on any of the planes, he said.
He added that the inspections were ``in areas that were readily accessible, where we didn't have to take anything apart.''
He said that the FAA was re-examining the design and installation of the system on the Swissair planes, but that the agency had not asked any other airlines to inspect their entertainment systems.
Such systems are a major point of competition among airlines offering first-class or business-class service over long routes.
They can require large amounts of electric current, and thus generate substantial heat.
David Sebring, the chief engineer for cabin systems at Boeing Co., said in an interview in August that on a big jet the system can use 30 kilowatts _ enough electricity to run several large suburban houses.
The Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday abruptly ordered airlines that fly MD-11s to inspect two cockpit switches because one model in wide use can give off smoke at certain settings.
But such switches did not cause the crash of the MD-11 being flown as Swissair Flight 111 on Sept. 2, aviation authorities said, because the cockpit switches in that plane had already been changed.
Since the Swissair crash, near Halifax, Nova Scotia, the FAA has been reviewing trouble reports on the plane and recommendations from the manufacturer, McDonnell Douglas; its action Thursday was to make one of those recommendations mandatory.
The switches are dimmer switches for cockpit instruments.
``The real safety issue is not fire, it's smoke in the cockpit,'' said FAA spokesman Les Dorr.
He added that Thursday's order was ``typical of several hundred'' that are issued each year, and was not considered a major safety issue.
The FAA said the cost to the industry would be about $60 a plane.
The order covers the 65 MD-11s registered in this country but not the 109 others around the world _ including Swissair's surviving models.
The agency said it did not know how many airlines had already done the work.
The FAA issued the order as a final rule, but said it would accept public comment for 45 days.
Investigators are still trying to determine the cause of the Swissair crash, which involved smoke in the cockpit and killed all 229 people aboard.
After the crash of Swissair Flight 111, the airline gave the grieving familes of the victims all the help customarily offered in such disasters.
It brought them to Halifax, booked them in hotels and bused them to the crash site.
But then it gave them something more unusual: space on the airline's web page to speak out.
Now, on a new different bulletin board, set up on Yahoo, the families are pouring out their souls about the crash.
It is a new way of grieving that has also been used by families of the victims of other crashes.
``This is a bit strange for me; I don't really know what to write or how to begin,'' said one posting, by a woman named Mette, who said her father died in the Sept. 3 crash that took 229 lives.
``I just feel a need to.
I want to try all possible ways of dealing with all the emotions and confusion.''
``I am wondering if there are any other people out there around my age (19) who lost someone on the flight and would like to communicate with me,'' Mette continued.
Two days later, a woman who lost both her parents on the plane responded.
Despite Swissair's offer of space on its web site, relatives of the victims said they ultimately decided to move to Yahoo because they felt that they needed a more neutral space.
Monica Hawkins, whose cousin, Jay Jasan, died on the flight, said the Swissair site ``kind of felt funny,'' partly because they knew Swissair personnel were reading their postings.
Miles Gerety, who lost a brother, Pierce, on the plane, asked his 13-year-old son to handle the technical aspects of the bulletein board.
The boy created a Yahoo club, a combination of message boards, chat rooms, e-mail message lists, member lists, a links area, calendars and archive information.
``You have to have a 13-year-old,'' said Gerety, who is a public defender in Connecticut and said he could not have set up the bulletin board on his own.
The site has a counter to monitor usage: it recently showed 35 members logged in, with a total of 1,019 page views for the day, and three new members who had joined the club.
For now, everyone can read their postings.
But Gerety and Ms. Hawkins, who are the acting chairman and vice-chair of an organization of Swissair-disaster families announced early this month, said they would create a private bulletin board once they had more relatives signed up.
The organization can be reached at clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/familiesofswissairflight111.
The family association can be reached by mail at P.O. Box B, Redding Ridge, Conn. 06876.
Relatives from this crash and previous ones said that some of the characteristics that are generally seen as e-mail's weaknesses suddenly become strengths for people trying to cope with a crash, especially the detached nature of the communications.
``You can sit down and put your thoughts down,'' said Jane B. Lathem of Alpharetta, Ga., whose son, Ray W. Lathem, died on the crash of Valujet Flight 592 in May, 1996.
``People find it easier to open up when they're not face-to-face.
The site is at flight592.com 	Some of the Swissair postings show people grapping both with grief and a new technology.
``This is the first time I have written a message at this site, or any other for that matter.
I'm really not really sure what to write, but I feel that I really want to,'' wrote Linda Arnmark, whose father, Per Spanne, was on the flight.
``Maybe writing to you all is a good way to deal with what has happened.''
James N. Landrum, of Plano, Texas, whose wife's sister, Terri Bell, died on the Valujet flight, said he pays $15 a month for the 40 megabytes of disk space it takes to run the site Landrum, a computer systems engineer, said he is trying to get the transcript of the National Transportation Safety Board's hearing from a CD-ROM unto the web site, but the CD-ROM stores the transcript as pictures of pages, not text files, and converting it is laborious.
Landrum said that message traffic picked up around the second anniversary of the crash and again when the Swissair plane crashed.
Thailand is hosting the Asian Games and, with Tajikistan, Mongolia, and a Palestinian team expected to confirm, expects athletes from 39 countries, regions or organizations.
Afghanistan, claiming financial problems, will not attend while North Korea, despite widespread hunger at home, will attend.
Despite the loss of some veteran athletes and past drug problems, China hopes to do well in the medal standings even as it sends its first taekwondo team to the competition.
Kazakhstan has hopes of taking the gold in women's diving while India hopes to regain the top position it once held in world field hockey.
As many as 10,000 athletes were expected to participate in the Asian Games held  in Bangkok, Thailand.
Even impoverished North Korea planned to send 317 athletes  and officials.
Afghanistan was expected to be the only country certain not to attend.
China despite missing some of its stars is expected to be the powerhouse team.
Steroid use by Chinese swimmers in the previous Games is now thought to no longer a  factor.
India hopes to show well in field hockey, but South Korea is the favorite.
China, Turkmenistan, UAE, and Thailand advanced in second round soccer.
China,  as expected, dominated aquatic events.
Thailand expects about 10,000 athletes to compete in its Asian Games in 1998.
China has 596 athletes at the games and hopes to win 100+ medals.
It has also made  sure its swimmers will avoid their drug scandals of previous Asian Games.
The  Chinese women divers expect to win gold over the highly competitive Kazakhstan  competitors.
North Korea, absent from the last games, has sent 307 athletes and  officials.
India hopes to defeat favorite South Korea in field hockey and regain  its dominance in that sport.
China, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, and Thailand  have won second-round soccer berths at the games.
8,804 participants are confirmed and 10,000 expected at Thailand's Asian Games.
Afghanistan will not send athletes because of costs and representational questions.
North Korea will send a large delegation despite food and economic problems at home.
China and Turkmenistan secured second round spots in soccer.
India hopes to regain field hockey superiority.
China hopes for over 100 golds.
Its 596 athletes include many new faces and its first taekwondo team.
In swimming, China bests Japan in freestyle and relay but not backstroke or butterfly.
Women divers expect platform gold but stiff springboard competition from Kazakstan.
Record-holder Wu Yanyan has stamina problems.
China is intent on overcoming its past steroid use scandals.
China hopes to win its first Asian Games gold medal in the martial art of taekwondo next month in Thailand, the official newspaper China Sports Daily said Tuesday.
The team of six women and three men will be China's first to compete in taekwondo at the Asian Games, the report said.
China only began developing taekwondo in 1995, a year after the last Asian Games, the newspaper said.
China picked up one silver and one bronze medal at the 1997 world championships and won a gold, silver and five bronze medals at the Asian championships this year, the report said.
With South Korea, Taiwan and Iran _ the strongest taekwondo nations _ all competing in the upcoming games, ``the Chinese team's goal is to go all out to win one gold medal,'' it said.
Head coach Chen Liren was quoted as saying that a recent decision by the sport's international federation to adjust weight categories for competitions would affect China's women.
The team would not be dominant at any weight, he said.
``Strong competitors at the Asian Games will be as numerous as trees in a forest,'' Chen was quoted as saying.
Meanwhile, world record holder Wu Yanyan has been swimming an average 11 kilometers (7 miles) a day at a camp in southwest China where she is in training for the games, the official Xinhua News Agency said.
But the 20-year-old Wu, who shattered the 200-meter individual medley record at China's national games in October 1997, said it would be difficult for her to reach her peak at the Asian Games because she has recently had stamina problems, Xinhua added.
Thailand expects 39 countries, regions or organizations to send teams to the Asian Games, but is still waiting for confirmation from Tajikistan, Mongolia and a Palestinian team, the games' organizers said Monday.
Only Afghanistan is certain not to participate, said a press release from the organizing committee of the Dec. 6-20 games in Bangkok.
The lists submitted by participants so far show 8,804 athletes and officials planning to come to the games, the statement said, adding that the eventual number is expected to be 10,000.
It said the Olympic Council of Asia, the region's governing sports body, had been in close contact with Tajikistan, Mongolia and the Palestinians.
``We will wait for their final reply until Nov. 20,'' it quoted Warawut Sumon, head of Thailand's technical committee, as saying.
``At the same time, we are taking into consideration that some teams may not make it to the regional games.''
Last week, Afghanistan said it would not send a team to the games because it could not afford the expense.
It added that its sports minister and a second representative might show up to carry the flag as a ceremonial gesture.
The organizers also said Monday that the Olympic Council of Asia and the International Olympic Committee are both withholding recognition of Afghanistan's national organizing committee for the games because two separate parties claim to represent it.
All programs, participation and budgetary allocations for Afghanistan's committee have been frozen, it quoted Abdul Muttaleb Ahmad, OCA director general, as saying.
Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej, meanwhile, received Thai athletes and organizers Monday at his palace, and wished them good luck and success.
``Even though the country has faced financial trouble, Thailand has shown the watching world that the crisis cannot be an obstacle if there is sincerity and harmony among Thais to make this major event happen,'' he added.
Despite catastrophic hunger at home, North Korea plans to send 317 athletes and officials to next month's Asian Games in Thailand, South Korean officials said Thursday.
It will be the largest sports delegation the communist country has sent abroad in recent years.
North Korean Sports Minister Chang Ung said 209 athletes from his country will compete in 21 events in Bangkok, hoping to win medals in women's judo, women's soccer, wrestling, table tennis, weightlifting and boxing.
Chang made the remarks in an interview published recently by the Chosun Shinbo, a newspaper run by pro-North Korean residents in Japan, said Seoul's Naewoe Press, which obtained the report.
Chang said North Korea was sending a large delegation to Bangkok to prepare for the 2000 Sydney Olympics.
North Korea did not enter the last Asian Games, in Hiroshima, Japan, in 1994.
It sent only 18 athletes and officials to the Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, in February.
Naewoe is run by South Korea's main government intelligence agency and specializes in monitoring communist news media.
Three years of floods and drought that started in 1995 devastated North Korea's collective farming and planned economy, forcing the country to rely on outside aid to feed its 23 million people.
Chinese swimmers, missing some of their stars, are eyeing Japan as the team to beat at the Asian Games in Thailand, an official report said Wednesday.
China's formidable table tennis team, also missing some veteran champions, is bracing for a challenge, too, and aiming for just four to five gold medals at the games next month, another report said.
Chen Yan and Wu Yanyan, world record holders in the women's 400-meter and 200-meter individual medleys, respectively, are leading hopefuls in the pool, the China Daily said.
Other hopefuls are Shan Ying in the women's 50- and 100-meter freestyle and new team member Chen Hua in the women's 800- and 1,500-meter freestyle, the newspaper said.
Han Xue, a breaststroke short-course world record holder, also has medal chances, it added.
But world record holders Le Jingyi and He Cihong will miss the games, the newspaper said.
Top butterfly swimmer Liu Limin also has left to study in the United States, it said.
``We excel in freestyle and relay events, but we are weaker in backstroke and butterfly than Japan,'' the newspaper quoted Zhang Xiong, the national team's head coach, as saying.
``The competition this time will be hard because two-thirds of our swimmers are new,'' Zhang said.
``We won't let any hope of winning slip through our hands although it appears Japan may dominate.''
In the men's events, China is aiming to win five of 14 swimming titles, the newspaper said.
The table tennis team, meanwhile, will be doing without veteran players Deng Yaping, Ma Wenge and Wang Tao, the China Youth Daily said.
``This indicates that the Chinese table tennis team has already completed the handover from old to new,'' the newspaper said.
Head coach Cai Zhenhua said the team was aiming for just four to five golds, the newspaper said.
To prepare for the games, the team went to northern Hebei province outside Beijing for three weeks of training starting Nov. 8, the newspaper added.
Meanwhile, China's gymnastics team is aiming for 8 to 10 of the 14 gold medals at stake, the China Sports Daily said.
China, the overall gold medal leader at the past three games, will send 596 athletes to Thailand and compete in 32 of the 36 sports.
Sports officials have said China hopes to win more than 100 golds.
China won 137 _ or 41 percent _ of 337 gold medals at stake at the last games in Hiroshima, Japan, in 1994.
Star striker Chen Yang scored a hat trick Wednesday for China in a lackluster 4-1 victory over Cambodia, securing his country a spot in the second soccer round for the 13th Asian Games.
Underdog Turkmenistan also earned a second-round berth by overcoming a 2-0 half-time deficit to defeat South Korea in a nail-biting finish, with two goals coming in the final 10 minutes.
The United Arab Emirates and North Korea ended regulation play and extra time at 3-3, settling their Group E match in the southern city of Songkhla with a penalty shootout.
The Emirates won, 7-4.
Playing at the National Stadium on a poor pitch with traces of day-old repairs visible, host Thailand made a fiery debut against Hong Kong, shutting out their opponents 5-0 after leading 3-0 at the half.
Thailand's Kritsada Piandit scored the first goal barely a minute into the match, followed by teammates Worawood Srimaka on a penalty in the eighth minute and Kiatisuk Senamuang in the 22nd minute.
Eight minutes into the second half, Tawan Sripan kicked in Thailand's fourth goal, and Kiatisuk hit the target for the second time at the 40th minute to make the final score 5-0.
The result takes Hong Kong out of competition, since they also lost their Group F opener to Oman on Monday.
China fulfilled expectations of topping Group B in Surat Thani with the victory over Cambodia, the 4-1 scoreline mirroring Monday's rout of Lebanon.
But though the Chinese dominated, they failed to sparkle.
Chen scored early in the first half, heading in a long pass from midfield.
Peng Wang caught a pass on the right side about 10 minutes later and fired his second Asian Games goal.
Chen scored again on a near shot and headed in his third goal in the 38th minute.
Cambodia partially salvaged its honor late in the second half when Hok Sochetra beat the complacent Chinese defense and scored.
It was one of the only shots on goal that the Cambodians had.
Following Monday's victory over regional favorite Vietnam, Turkmenistan staged its second upset in Group A in the central city of Nakhon Sawan, eclipsing South Korea.
The South Koreans carved up the Turkmenistan defense in the first half.
Yong-Soo Choi gave his team _ which hoped to erase memories of a dismal World Cup _ a commanding two-goal advantage with an opening-minute goal and a shot that pin-balled off a teammate into the net in the 44th minute.
Turkmenistan regrouped after the half.
A long cross found the head of Igor Kislov to put Turkmenistan on the scoreboard.
Steady pressure led to a dangerous foul and red card for South Korea's Byoung-Keun Lee.
Muslim Agaev took advantage of the reduced South Korean side with a slicing left-footed shot into the top far corner to equalize.
Kislov fired home the winner in the dying minutes.
Once at the top of world field hockey, India would like to have a hockey god to help regain that glory.
``Things are changing in Bangkok, and we are feeling much better,'' Rajinder Singh, manager of the Indian hockey squad, said Friday, a day after the Indians defeated Japan 3-2 in a warmup match for the Asian Games.
The Indians, who number 980 million, have an amazing quality of discovering gods who number in hundreds of thousands.
There is even a goddess for small pox and Indians still pray to her to keep that disease, almost eradicated, away.
``We believe in divine blessings and we hope it pours on us,'' said Singh.
There are so many ifs for the Indians on the way to a gold medal in the 12-nation tournament that it may well be luck besides skill and endurance needed to reach the top.
In its glory days, skill helped India win a total of eight Olympic gold medals, the most recently in 1980.
But the Indians have won an Asian Games gold medal only once, silver eight times and bronze once.
The South Koreans, who have remained a force in field hockey since winning the gold in the 1986 Asian Games at home, are clearly the favorite.
Between winning the last Asian Games gold in Hiroshima in 1994, the Koreans have figured in two World Cups, two Champions Trophy events and the Atlanta Olympics.
The Indians were silver medalists at Hiroshima, but since then have suffered a downward swing.
They placed eighth at the 1996 Olympics and one step lower in the Utrecht World Cup.
At this year's Commonwealth Games, India was out of the medals.
In Bangkok, however, there are some silver linings.
Skipper Dhanraj Pillay is a passionate player and no defense is safe against him if he gets the ball properly.
Baljit Singh Dhillon, a specialist in flick-drives in goal-winning penalty corners, has shaped up well.
Pakistan, India's traditional rival in the subcontinent on many issues besides sports, can also dampen the Indian hope for a comeback.
Pakistan has won the Asian Games gold medal seven times, silver twice and bronze once.
The other medalists at the Asians Games have been Malaysia with five bronzes and Japan with two.
&UR; (dg)
China's swim team will hit the water at the Asian Games on Monday with a reminder of the darkest chapter in its story of drug shame.
Xiong Gouming, one of the 11 Chinese athletes who tested positive for steroids in Hiroshima four years ago, will compete in the men's 400-meter individual medley, taking his place on a team that is constantly forced to defend itself.
Head coach Zhang Xiong said Xiong Gouming ``feels fine'' about being back at an Asian Games.
``That was the past,'' said Zhang, brushing off drug questions Sunday.
``We hope that we will be clean.''
The Chinese Olympic Committee tested athletes before their departure for Bangkok, and Chinese media said the swimmers were subjected to four surprise tests conducted by world governing body FINA.
``We treat this as a major issue to make sure no Chinese athletes will test positive,'' COC vice president Li Furong said.
Earlier this year China announced, through FINA, that any of its athletes testing positive for steroids would be banned for life.
Under those criteria, Xiong would never have had his second chance at an Asian Games.
Xiong won four golds in Hiroshima but has been mediocre since returning to international competition at the East Asian Games a year ago.
He was one of many poor performers at the world championships in Perth in January, as the Chinese appeared demoralized by yet another scandal.
After female swimmer Yuan Yuan was caught trying to smuggle 13 vials of human growth hormone through Sydney Airport, four of her teammates were nabbed with masking agents in their systems and thrown out of the games.
Chinese women swimmers won 12 of the 16 golds at stake in the 1994 Rome world championships and all 15 of their races in the 1994 Asian Games.
The team won three gold medals at this year's world championships.
Two of those went in the medley events to world record holders Chen Yan and Wu Yanyan, who will lead the Chinese team here.
Fellow world record holders Le Jingyi and He Cihong were left off a generally young squad assembled with a view ahead to the 2000 Olympics.
Japan's rising talent will test the inexperienced Chinese after a successful world championships.
Mai Nakamura, a silver medalist in the 100-meter backstroke and bronze medalist over 200; Ayari Aoyama, silver medalist in the 100-meter butterfly, and Yasuko Tajima, bronze medalist in the 400-meter medley, give the Japanese team undoubted class.
&UR; (tjh)
China's swim team will hit the water at the Asian Games on Monday with a reminder of the darkest chapter in its story of drug shame.
Xiong Guoming, one of the 11 Chinese athletes who tested positive for steroids in Hiroshima four years ago, will compete in the men's 400-meter individual medley, taking his place on a team that is constantly forced to defend itself.
Head coach Zhang Xiong said Xiong Guoming ``feels fine'' about being back at an Asian Games.
``That was the past,'' said Zhang, brushing off drug questions Sunday.
``We hope that we will be clean.''
The Chinese Olympic Committee tested athletes before their departure for Bangkok, and Chinese media said the swimmers were subjected to four surprise tests conducted by world governing body FINA.
``We treat this as a major issue to make sure no Chinese athletes will test positive,'' COC vice president Li Furong said.
Earlier this year China announced, through FINA, that any of its athletes testing positive for steroids would be banned for life.
Under those criteria, Xiong would never have had his second chance at an Asian Games.
Xiong won four golds in Hiroshima but has been mediocre since returning to international competition at the East Asian Games a year ago.
He was one of many poor performers at the world championships in Perth in January, as the Chinese appeared demoralized by yet another scandal.
After female swimmer Yuan Yuan was caught trying to smuggle 13 vials of human growth hormone through Sydney Airport, four of her teammates were nabbed with masking agents in their systems and thrown out of the games.
Chinese women swimmers won 12 of the 16 golds at stake in the 1994 Rome world championships and all 15 of their races in the 1994 Asian Games.
The team won three gold medals at this year's world championships.
Two of those went in the medley events to world record holders Chen Yan and Wu Yanyan, who will lead the Chinese team here.
Fellow world record holders Le Jingyi and He Cihong were left off a generally young squad assembled with a view ahead to the 2000 Olympics.
Japan's rising talent will test the inexperienced Chinese after a successful world championships.
Mai Nakamura, a silver medalist in the 100-meter backstroke and bronze medalist over 200; Ayari Aoyama, silver medalist in the 100-meter butterfly, and Yasuko Tajima, bronze medalist in the 400-meter medley, give the Japanese team undoubted class.
&UR; (tjh)
China's women divers expect to clinch Asian Games gold in the platform competition but could face stiff competition from Kazakstan in the springboard.
``If we make no big mistake, the gold should be ours,'' Chinese platform diver Li Na said Sunday, on the eve of the start to the diving competition.
The diminutive 14-year-old, competing in her first major international competition, told China's state-run Xinhua News Agency that she sees her 16-year-old teammate Cai Yuyan as her main opponent in the platform.
But she acknowledged that Kazakstan's Irina Vyguzova could challenge China in the women's three-meter springboard, Xinhua said.
``Irina is an excellent diver,'' said Li.
``If she gives her best in the competition, she has the chance to snatch the gold away from Chinese divers.''
Guo Jingjing and Yang Lan will represent China in the women's springboard contest.
&UR; jl
China's women divers expect to clinch Asian Games gold in the platform competition but could face stiff competition from Kazakstan in the springboard.
``If we make no big mistake, the gold should be ours,'' Chinese platform diver Li Na said Sunday, on the eve of the start to the diving competition.
The diminutive 14-year-old, competing in her first major international competition, told China's state-run Xinhua News Agency that she sees her 16-year-old teammate Cai Yuyan as her main opponent in the platform.
But she acknowledged that Kazakstan's Irina Vyguzova could challenge China in the women's three-meter springboard, Xinhua said.
``Irina is an excellent diver,'' said Li.
``If she gives her best in the competition, she has the chance to snatch the gold away from Chinese divers.''
Guo Jingjing and Yang Lan will represent China in the women's springboard contest.
&UR; jl
Fernando Cardoso was re-elected as Brazil's President on 4 October 1998.
He received slightly more than the majority needed to insure a first round victory.
Leftist da Silva received 34%.
There was some illegal late campaigning.
Half of the country voted on shoe-sized computers that confused some older voters.
Brazil is in dire economic straits, and Cardoso promised an austere program to ensure financial credibility.
By slashing spending and raising taxes Cardoso hoped the country would qualify for an IMF loan.
Many Cardoso allies were trailing in state level run-off races.
Their defeats will hurt Cardoso.
Pessimism pervaded the presidential inauguration.
Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso was re-elected in the first round of the election with 56 percent of the vote, eliminating the need for a runoff.
Cardoso easily defeated three-time presidential candidate Luiz Inacio Lula de Silva, who garnered only about 34 percent of the vote.
The election, held as Brazil was in the midst of an economic crisis, ensured that continuity of leadership would be maintained.
Newly re-elected President Cardoso delayed announcing plans for economic reform until after the gubernatorial elections.
Those elections, which saw many rivals elected, cast doubt on the future of Cardoso's economic reforms.
Brazil's economic woes dominated the political scene as President Cardoso faced  re-election.
His economic program had led to a reduction of the country's high  inflation rate to near zero.
However, trade and budget deficits and the need for  tax and budget reforms to curb spending kept the economic picture in serious  straits.
Cardoso easily won re-election as confidence in his program remained high.
The victories of his political rivals in gubernatorial and legislative races left  further stern measures in doubt.
The nation hoped for a relief package from the  International Monetary Fund.
Brazilian President Cardoso won his first-round re-election because voters trusted  his economic management more than that of his chief rival.
However, Brazil has  serious financial problems due to money depreciation and large trade and budget  deficits, particularly after becoming caught up in the financial turmoil that  began in Southeast Asia with foreign investment pullouts.
The IMF and the U.S.  could provide an aid package pending evidence of a promising economic recovery plan  that would cut government expenses.
Gubernatorial elections will be important  because governors control a considerable share of the national budget and could be  told to cut local budgets.
Brazilian stocks dropped sharply Monday in the lowest trading volume of the year despite the almost certain re-election of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.
Brazil's largest stock exchange, Sao Paulo Bovespa, lost 4.5 percent while the smaller Rio de Janeiro stock exchange fell 3.4 percent.
Although Cardoso seems to have clinched a first-round win, investors feared that he would put off any announcement of the harsh economic measures deemed necessary until the second round of voting for a number of governors, senators and federal deputies takes place on Oct. 25.
``Cardoso has won in the first round, but the market is thinking that all the measures we are waiting for will only take place after the second round,'' said Fabio Lara, director at Schahin Cury brokerage in Sao Paulo.
Lara said that the Cardoso government doesn't want to announce anything detrimental _ such as tax increases _ to its allied candidates in the state governments until they are through the second round of voting.
Attention has shifted in Brazil from the president's almost-certain re-election to gubernatorial runoff elections, on which the success of belt tightening measures deemed necessary to avert an economic meltdown may hinge.
With 69.5 percent of the votes counted Tuesday, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso Cardoso continued to lead with 52.4 percent of the vote.
His closest rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of the leftist Workers Party had 32.6 percent, and Ciro Gomes of the Popular Socialist Party had 11 percent.
Nine other candidates shared the rest.
Cardoso must win more than half the vote from Sunday's election to avoid a second-round runoff _ a feat he is expected to easily accomplish.
The same rule applies to the gubernatorial candidates in all 27 states, and at least 14 of them appeared headed to a second round of voting on Oct.25.
``Governors have always exerted enormous influence on their states' congressional bloc,'' said Luciano Dias a Brasilia-based political consultant.
``And the outcome of the runoff elections will definitely determine just how easy, or difficult, it will be for Cardoso to persuade Congress to approve the austerity measures.''
He said that if Cardoso opponents win runoff elections in the states of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, ``the going will get tough.''
Together, those four states occupy 200 of the 513 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and account for 67.29 percent of the country's gross domestic product.
``If the opposition wins in these states Cardoso will face a formidable wall of resistance against the unpopular measures that are certain to come,'' Dias said.
``The president will get his measures, but he will have to negotiate, and that means bartering, which could weaken the austerity package.''
Brazil, like other emerging markets, is suffering from a loss of investor confidence and a strong outflow of capital.
The country's foreign reserves have fallen below dlrs 50 billion from the dlrs 70 billion posted at the end of July.
To prevent a collapse of the real and stem capital flight, interest rates were hiked to 50 percent a year.
Cardoso has promised to tackle the country's ballooning a budget deficit _ equal to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product _ and hinted that taxes would be increased.
Although most observers agree that the faster these measures are defined and introduced, the better, Cardoso is unlikely to impose them until after the second round of voting.
To do so would jeopardize the chances of pro-government gubernatorial candidates.
Chip Brown, chief Latin American economist for Salomon Smith Barney in New York, said that little news was expected over the next few weeks on the fiscal package meant to restore confidence among investors.
``I hope the market doesn't expect too much immediately,'' he said, adding that the best markets can hope for in the short term is broad sketches of a fiscal plan.
Ricardo Ribeiro, a Sao Paulo political consultant, said delaying the measures could make their approval more difficult.
``As the population gets a better notion of the seriousness of the crisis and the severity of the measures that will certainly be adopted, Cardoso's popularity will erode,'' he said.
``And if his popularity drops, so will his chances to get Congress' approval for these measures.''
With President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's economic austerity plan at a critical point for Brazil, voters went to the polls Sunday to elect governors in 12 states and the Federal District of Brasilia.
Voting was calm after polls opened at 8 a.m. (1000 GMT), showing little of the illegal but last-minute campaigning that pervaded the first-round election on Oct. 4.
Even so, army troops were deployed at voting stations in four northern states to ensure peace.
The austerity plan was very much on the minds of the 64 million Brazilians expected to vote.
Paulo Garrini, a business administration student in Sao Paulo, said it was one reason he voted for incumbent Gov. Mario Covas, a Cardoso ally.
``Covas made it clear he will support Cardoso in the austerity measures the country needs, no matter how painful they may be,'' Garrini said.
But many voters are indifferent, believing that hard times are ahead _ no matter what their choice at the polls.
Caught up in the financial turmoil that began more than a year ago in Southeast Asia, Brazil believes it needs to slash government spending and raise taxes quickly to shore up its flagging economy and restore investor confidence.
The difficulty, however, of pushing through such unpopular measures at election time became evident when Cardoso repeatedly put off announcing the austerity package.
Such measures were initially expected after first-round elections, in which Cardoso was re-elected and 14 state governors were chosen.
After the election, Cardoso said the package could be announced by Oct. 20.
But with 13 government-allied candidates facing tough run-offs, he postponed it until after the Oct. 25 second-round elections.
David Fleischer, a professor of political science at the University of Brasilia said it was a smart move on the president's part.
``Governors have far more power and a direct hold on their states than the president has over the whole country,'' said Fleischer.
``Their influence and political weight should not be underestimated.''
Another reason Cardoso needs allies at the state level is to curb their overspending, which accounts for a big chunk of the government's dlrs 65 billion budget deficit.
Even without announcing harsh budget cutting measures, the situation still looks fairly grim for Cardoso allies in Brazil's four most developed states _ Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul.
In Sao Paulo, Brazil's industrial and financial powerhouse with more than 34 million inhabitants, Covas came from behind in the polls to pass Paulo Maluf, a populist candidate with a taste for extravagant public works projects.
In Rio de Janeiro, polls put opposition candidate Anthony Garotinho well ahead of Cardoso ally Cesar Maia.
``Whoever wins, it's going to be difficult because it doesn't look like there's going to be much money to spend,'' said Paulo Benevides, a 22-year-old college student.
He said he planned to vote for Maia, Rio's mayor.
This time around, the presidential Rolls Royce is staying in the garage.
And forget about champagne, the inauguration will be toasted with locally-grown sparkling wine and contraband whiskey seized by customs officials.
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso prepares to be sworn in to a second term in office Friday, but for many here the expectations are as stripped down as the commemorations.
``The difference in sentiment between the first term and the second term are enormous,'' said Antonio Delfim Neto, a congressman and former finance minister, ``In 1995 everything was certainty and hope ... the beginning of the second term is sadder: everything is uncertainty.''
On the eve of his 1995 inauguration, Cardoso enjoyed approval ratings of around 70 percent, almost entirely on the strength of the economic plan he devised as finance minister under then-President Itamar Franco.
Introduced in July 1994, the plan dropped inflation, then hovering around 50 percent a month, to a single digit almost overnight.
Suddenly one US dollar bought only 82 centavos of a real _ the local currency _ and for many Brazilians, beaten down by years of triple digit inflation, it was a heady time.
With new hard currency in their wallets, Brazilians traveled abroad in record numbers and consumption of electronics and other goods grew so quickly there were concerns the economy was overheating.
It was in this climate that Cardoso was overwhelming elected in Oct. 1995 and fittingly all the stops were pulled out for his first inauguration with some 6,000 people attending the 3 million real (dlrs 2.5 million) gala.
The economic plan received high marks from most economists, but many warned that it would at best provide a window of opportunity in which to address deep-seated structural problems.
Cardoso's government proposed constitutional amendments to change the tax system, the pension system and civil service payrolls and shore-up the country's burgeoning deficit.
But aside from a constitutional amendment that allowed the president and governors to stand for reelection, something prohibited under the country's 1988 Constitution, the other reforms languished in Congress.
For a while, that wasn't a problem.
Trade and public sector deficits continue to grow, but foreign money was flooding into Brazil faster than ever and the country's reserves swelled from around dlrs 40 billion to above dlrs 70 billion during Cardoso's first three and a half years in office.
The volume on Brazilian stock exchanges more than doubled and leading stock funds boasted returns of over 200 percent a year.
But when financial instability rocked Asia and then Russia last August, the same foreign investment that had swelled the country's foreign reserves left even faster than it came in.
With a dlrs 41.5 International Monetary Fund-led bailout package, Brazil may have avoided becoming the latest domino to fall in the financial crisis afflicting Asia and Russia, but the outcome of all the fiscal belt-tightening needed to qualify for that aid will almost certainly spell recession in 1999.
Although Cardoso soundly defeated his opponent, leftist Worker's Party candidate Luiz Lula Inacio da Silva, in the first round of last year's October election, his approval rating has sunk by some 17 percentage points in the months since then to around 35 percent.
According to a recent poll by the Datafolha organization, 48 percent of those questioned now expect inflation to rise over the coming months and 66 percent are worried about losing their jobs.
The poll which interviewed 11,851 people had a margin of error of plus or minus two percentage points.
Not surprisingly, Friday's inauguration dinner will be a scaled-down affair.
Only 114 people are expected to attend the dinner following Friday's inauguration which is expected to cost 60,000 reals (dlrs 50,000), or a mere 2 percent of what the first one cost.
Whether Cardoso will be able to steer Brazil _ and an unruly Congress _ away from these uncertain shores is anybody's guess, but regardless of what Brazilians think of the job he's doing they're sticking by their captain.
``He got us into this mess, so we'll just have to hope he can get us out,'' said Luis Fernando Duarte de Morares, an agricultural engineer.
Brazilian voters appeared to re-elect President Fernando Henrique Cardoso in the first round of balloting Sunday, thus maintaining the leadership of a country struggling against economic crisis.
In preliminary returns, Cardoso appeared to have defeated Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the three-time presidential candidate of the leftist Workers Party, with 56 percent of the vote, a far stronger showing than polls initially predicted.
Cabinet members gathering at the presidential palace in Brasilia Sunday night called the vote a mandate for reform, which the president is under national and international pressure to carry out.
With $30 billion having drained from federal reserves since Russia's economic collapse in late August, and the Sao Paulo stock market down more than 40 percent this year, the Brazilian government has been somewhat paralyzed by the approach of elections.
It has been negotiating a bailout with the International Monetary Fund, but has been unable to show progress on structural reforms that would cut government expenses over the long term.
But the waiting is probably not over yet.
The size of his victory strengthens Cardoso's hand for the politically sensitive social security, civil service and tax overhauls ahead.
But, political analysts said, Congress will probably not convene to consider painful economic reforms before important gubernatorial runoffs on Oct. 25.
With policy-makers at the meetings of the Group of Seven top industrialized nations and the International Monetary Fund in Washington seeking permanent solutions to ward off the volatility that is threatening Brazil after devastating Asia and Russia, Cardoso is expected to start taking steps to put Brazil's accounts in order.
Antonio Carlos Alkimin, a political science professor at Catholic University and chief of population studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, said he did not expect that Cardoso could make progress toward restructuring the government before Oct. 25, because these measures would require legislative approval.
``What he can do is take measures on the administrative level to cut costs, or to play with controls on currency,'' Alkimin said.
But Gregg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, said that financial markets were not expecting concrete reforms from Brazil in the next few weeks.
``The next thing everybody's going to be watching is whether there is an IMF and World Bank package to support Brazil and whether the Brazilians are starting to take actions to work on the budget deficit,'' he said.
``If those two things look like they're moving in the right direction, it will begin to calm financial markets.''
Sunday's balloting was somewhat confused, with about half the country voting on small shoebox-sized computers that elderly voters had trouble mastering.
Though electioneering was required to end before polls opened, most candidates appeared to ignore the prohibition.
At Rocinha, in Rio de Janeiro, believed to be the largest slum in South America with about 300,000 residents, palm-sized photos of candidates fluttered like autumn leaves through the air and carpeted the streets.
People waited more than an hour to cast their votes, with many supporting Cardoso for re-election.
Luiz Claudio Silveira, a 34-year-old horse trainer, said he planned to vote for Cardoso, largely because he ended inflation.
``If you go to the supermarket, you can buy whatever you need now,'' he said.
``Four years is not enough to change a country as big as ours.
I really believe in him.''
Rute Vicente Oliveira, a 48-year-old manicurist, also planned to vote for Cardoso.
She said that for most of her life, her family lived in a lean-to, too poor to build a proper home.
It was her father's dream, she said, and he died before it was realized.
``Now, the house is almost done, it's almost completely in order,'' she said.
Gilberto Manuel da Silva, 40, who owns an ice cream parlor, said that he expected the economic adjustments that Cardoso announced would hurt him personally, but he was prepared to sacrifice in order to stabilize Brazil's economy.
``I'm thinking more about the situation of the country,'' da Silva said.
``With a stable money, our situation will get better.''
Brazilian voters gave President Fernando Henrique Cardoso a comfortable lead in the first round of balloting Sunday, apparently maintaining the leadership of a country struggling against economic crisis.
With 22 percent of the vote counted, Cardoso appeared to have won 51 percent of the vote, compared with 34 percent for his main rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the three-time presidential candidate of the leftist Workers Party.
If he still has a majority when returns are complete, Cardoso will be declared re-elected without facing a runoff.
Exit polls indicated that he might win as much as 56 percent.
Cabinet members gathering at the presidential palace in Brasilia Sunday night called the vote a mandate for the economic measures that the president is under national and international pressure to carry out.
With $30 billion having drained from federal reserves since Russia's economic collapse in late August, and with the Sao Paulo stock market down more than 40 percent this year, the Brazilian government has been close to paralyzed by the approach of the election.
It has been negotiating a bailout with the International Monetary Fund but has been unable to show progress on structural changes that would cut government expenses over the long term.
The waiting is probably not over yet, though.
The size of his victory strengthens Cardoso's hand for the politically sensitive social security, civil service and tax overhauls ahead.
But political analysts said Congress would probably not convene to consider the painful economic measures before important gubernatorial runoffs on Oct. 25 because the legislators will be busy campaigning for their parties' gubernatorial candidates.
With policy-makers at meetings of the Group of Seven industrial nations and the International Monetary Fund in Washington seeking permanent solutions to ward off the volatility that is threatening Brazil after devastating Asia and Russia, Cardoso is under considerable pressure to put Brazil's accounts in order.
But Gregg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities in New York, said the international financial markets were not necessarily expecting major changes from Brazil in the next few weeks.
``The next thing everybody's going to be watching is whether there is an IMF and World Bank package to support Brazil, and whether the Brazilians are starting to take actions to work on the budget deficit,'' he said.
``If those two things look like they're moving in the right direction, it will begin to calm financial markets.''
Antonio Carlos Alkimin, a political science professor at Catholic University in Rio de Janeiro and chief of population studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, said he did not expect that Cardoso could make progress toward restructuring the government before Oct. 25, because such measures would require legislative approval.
``What he can do is take measures on the administrative level to cut costs or to play with controls on currency,'' Alkimin said.
Sunday's balloting was somewhat confused, with about half of the country voting on small shoebox-sized computers that elderly voters had trouble mastering.
Though electioneering was required to end before polls opened Sunday, most candidates appeared to ignore the prohibition.
At Rocinha, in Rio de Janeiro, believed to be the largest slum in South America with about 300,000 residents, palm-size photos of candidates fluttered like autumn leaves through the air and carpeted the streets.
People waited more than an hour to cast their votes, with many supporting Cardoso.
Luiz Claudio Silveira, 34, a horse trainer who voted in Rocinha, said he planned to vote for Cardoso, largely because the president had ended inflation.
``If you go to the supermarket, you can buy whatever you need now,'' Silveira said.
``Four years is not enough to change a country as big as ours.
I really believe in him.''
Rute Vicente Oliveira, 48, a manicurist, also planned to vote for Cardoso.
For most of her life, she said, her family lived in a lean-to, too poor to build a proper home.
Her father dreamed of giving his family solid, sturdy shelter, Ms. Oliveira said, but he died before concrete blocks replaced the family's plywood slats.
``Now the house is almost done,'' she said.
``It's almost completely in order.''
Many voters appeared to be unaware of the fiscal adjustments ahead, though the president announced less than two weeks before the election that government belt-tightening measures would be inevitable.
Of the 106 million Brazilians eligible to vote Sunday, nearly 70 percent have less than an elementary school education, and 35 percent are barely literate.
Gilberto Manuel da Silva, 40, who owns an ice cream parlor, said that he expected the economic adjustments to hurt him personally but that he was prepared to sacrifice to stabilize Brazil's economy.
The president said he would cut government costs, crack down on tax evaders and, if necessary, raise taxes to increase revenues.
``I'm thinking more about the situation of the country than of myself,'' da Silva said.
``With a stable money, our situation will get better.''
Through the anxious weeks leading up to the national elections here on Sunday, as some $30 billion fled Brazil despite the doubling of domestic interest rates, international financial officials watched for the government to tackle cost-cutting reforms as soon as voting ended.
But Monday, as official returns indicated President Fernando Henrique Cardoso was barely squeaking through to re-election and governors allied to him were locked in runoffs later this month, the road to reform is looming longer and more complex.
Polling groups and television stations that reported an overwhelming victory for Cardoso came under severe criticism.
Though exit polls reported Cardoso taking some 56 percent of the vote, official tallies Monday afternoon gave him 51 percent, with 56 percent of the votes counted.
His nearest rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, of the leftist Workers Party, took 34 percent, substantially higher than the 24 percent polls predicted he would take.
Cardoso's margin was just 1.2 percent higher than needed to avoid a second round of balloting.
Ciro Gomes, an up-and-coming former finance minister from the northeastern state of Ceara, took 11 percent, while Eneas Carneiro, a nationalist who called for Brazil to build an atom bomb, gained 2.2 percent of the vote.
Though voting in Brazil is largely obligatory, the share of abstentions and invalid votes reached 30 percent.
Allies of the president did poorly in many of Brazil's most populous and politically influential states, weakening Cardoso's hand going into negotiations for reform.
Though Brazil has not yet submitted a formal request, Brazilian officials have been in Washington negotiating some form of assistance from the International Monetary Fund that will likely total $30 billion or more.
The country's failure to cut spending in two key areas _ social security and civil service _ and to simplify and improve tax collection, makes Brazil heavily dependent on foreign capital at a time when investors generally are fleeing emerging markets.
Brazil's budget deficit is exceeding 7 percent of Gross National Product, and its current account deficit, which includes its balance of trade as well as debt service and other payments, constitutes more than 4 percent of GNP.
Government cutbacks of $5 billion, and the doubling of interbank loan rates to almost 50 percent, have slowed but not stopped the flight of capital.
As of 6 p.m. Monday, some $300 million had left foreign reserve coffers, and the Sao Paulo stock market was down 4.47 percent.
Investors appear to be watching for lasting reforms from the government and for signs that wealthy nations will back Brazil.
But the political arena remained strangely silent Monday, almost suspended.
By Monday afternoon, Cardoso still had not claimed victory, and da Silva had not conceded defeat.
Sergio Amaral, the president's spokesman, said Cardoso would wait until official results were completely tallied before speaking.
Newspapers in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo headlined exit polls showing the president doing vastly better than official tallies bore out, and in state races, polling institutes by and large underplayed the strength of leftist candidates, bringing them under sharp attack.
``The nation has watched the most shameful political and electoral manipulation heard of in recent history,'' said a statement from the coalition of parties that da Silva represented.
It accused the polling institutes, media, and electoral officials of conspiring ``to influence public opinion and alter the electoral will.''
Mauro Francisco Paulino, director of opinion polls for Datafolha, one of the main polling services, denied any intentional manipulation of the results.
He predicted the final results would support the exit polls.
While it is illegal to announce exit poll results while voting is still going on, it is ``traditional'' in Brazil, he said.
Brazil's Congress, out campaigning for gubernatorial candidates, will likely not convene to consider reforms before the end of the month, however dire the international situation.
Cardoso appears to be planning for a low profile in the coming weeks, with a brief vacation and a trip to Portugal coming up.
He is not expected to openly campaign for any candidates.
Maria Dalvo Kinzo, a political scientist at the University of Sao Paulo, said the only factor that might make pushing reforms easier for the president this time is the urgency of the crisis.
``There's a consciousness that the crisis is very serious,'' Ms. Kinzo said.
But she warned that with the strong showings of leftist candidates in important state races, and with half the deputies newcomers to Congress, the president's governing coalition was appearing more fragmented.
``Now, he's going to have to really patch together support,'' she said.
Jose Augusto Guilhermo de Albuquerque, coordinator of the research center on international relations at the University of Sao Paulo, agreed.
``His coalition will be larger and less ideologically committed than the current one,'' Albuquerque said.
Party discipline, customarily half-hearted, will be even weaker in the new panorama, he added.
The New York Times said in editorial for Wednesday, Oct. 7: 	Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has little time to savor his apparent first-round re-election victory Sunday.
He must take rapid and unpopular steps to save the economy.
Brazilians voted for Cardoso because they trusted his economic management more than that of his main rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.
da Silva, who leads the Workers Party, campaigned for a more closed economy.
His prescriptions struck many Brazilians as well-meaning but unrealistic.
But Cardoso avoided a runoff by the smallest of margins, and his allies failed to win in many important states.
The new Congress, which will take office in February, is likely to be less cooperative than the current one.
Brazil has made great economic strides under policies initiated by Cardoso, first as finance minister and then as president.
Inflation, a perennial problem, has fallen from 3,000 percent a year to around zero.
As the economy has grown, many Brazilians have prospered.
Much of that success came from a policy of tying the Brazilian currency, the real, to the dollar, and allowing it to fall about 7 percent a year.
Unfortunately, it appears that the depreciation rate was not enough to keep up with economic realities.
Brazil has been running a large trade deficit as well as a big budget deficit.
Now, with markets fearful, its debts have become crucial.
More than $300 million a day is draining out of the country despite interest rates of 40 percent, which have stopped economic growth.
Cardoso and the Congress must take fiscal discipline seriously.
In May the Congress rejected his social security and civil service reforms.
Then he abandoned restraints during his election campaign, and spending soared.
Now Congress must simplify taxes and improve income tax collection rates _ especially crucial because these taxes will come from the better-off in a country with one of the world's most unequal income distributions.
Brazil must also control spending, especially on pensions for the bloated public sector.
Putting Brazil's finances in order will be painful, but not as painful as economic collapse.
The International Monetary Fund should calm investors by coming up with a bailout to stem the hemorrhage of Brazil's reserves.
But it must be contingent on Brazil's own reforms.
It is unlikely, however, that the international community can find enough money to support the overvalued real forever.
The real will probably eventually have to be devalued, but it is understandable that Brazilians, who remember hyperinflation, fear an immediate and perhaps uncontrolled devaluation.
The perception now is that Latin America could go the way of Asia if Brazil sinks, and such perceptions can create their own problems.
There are good reasons for the world to help Brazil, but Brazil must also deal with its own problems.
Rivals of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso won important victories in gubernatorial races Sunday, handing the recently re-elected president a complex landscape for pushing through long-delayed government and economic reforms.
In Sao Paulo, however, Brazil's most populous and wealthiest state, Mario Covas appeared likely to win re-election as governor, defeating former Sao Paulo mayor Paulo Maluf.
Although Maluf's party forms part of the president's governing coalition, Cardoso had endorsed Covas.
Maluf is known as a big spender with presidential ambitions of his own.
His victory could have complicated Cardoso's efforts to control state spending and win congressional approval for reforms.
Despite considerable foreign pressure on Brazil to demonstrate how it will restructure government to reduce deficits, Cardoso has put off publicly announcing his plans, fearing they could damage the chances of his allies in the elections.
The delay costs Brazil heavily; each day, the country loses hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign reserves, and the longer the country maintains interest rates over 40 percent, the deeper its recession and debt.
With Brazil's solvency seen as crucial to maintaining economic stability of Latin America and protecting the United States from recession, the United States and the International Monetary Fund are preparing to chip in toward an aid package of at least $30 billion to shore up Brazil.
Cardoso won re-election on the first round of national voting earlier this month, but partial results showed left-of-center candidates leading in some of the most developed states of Brazil.
Sen. Pedro Piva, of the president's Brazilian Social Democracy Party, called Sunday's elections ``a warning sign for the government,'' adding, ``I think we're going to have difficulties ahead to approve this package.''
The governors are important both because they control a considerable share of the national budget and act as natural leaders of their parties in Congress.
States will be called upon to cut their budgets by as much as 20 to 30 percent, which will mean laying off civil servants.
Current laws allow the states to fire workers if the payroll exceeds 60 percent of the state budget; under a new law the administration is proposing, layoffs would become mandatory once that ceiling was reached.
In Rio de Janeiro, Anthony Garotinho, a former mayor of the city of Campos who belongs to the leftist Democratic Workers Party, was leading over Cesar Maia, a former Rio mayor belonging to a conservative grouping.
In Rio Grande do Sul in the south, Olivio Dutra of the Workers' Party was also leading over the incumbent, Antonio Britto, a Cardoso ally.
In Minas Gerais, former President Itamar Franco was leading by a wide margin over the incumbent Eduardo Azeredo, also of Cardoso's centrist Brazilian Social Democracy Party.
Franco's party belongs to the governing coalition, but Franco has been critical of Cardoso's economic policies and personally stung by the president's re-election.
In 1993, during Franco's presidency, he named Cardoso finance minister and launched the economic plan that would make Cardoso a national hero to a people weary of hyperinflation.
But Franco was deeply humiliated at his party's convention earlier this year, when he sought to run for president against Cardoso.
He was not only turned down, but laughed at.
Sunday night, Sen. Maguito Vilela, of Franco's Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, said backing for Cardoso's reforms would not be automatic.
The party would not support tax increases, he said, noting that one tax slated for increase, on financial transfers, was initially approved as a temporary measure to finance hospitals, but ended up going to offset the deficit.
``It just burdened people and didn't do anything to improve health care,'' he said.
Asked on Brazilian television precisely which measures his party would endorse, Vilela said, ``If it means more sacrifice for the people,'' his party ``will not support it.''
The Brazilian government, which recently pledged to slash discretionary spending by $7 billion in an urgent attempt to boost its economic credibility, has released new budget figures that show the true reduction will run about half the promised amount.
Total spending would actually increase next year.
The original spending cuts, announced two weeks ago, were part of an anxiously awaited program to raise government revenues next year by $23.5 billion, and represented Brazil's commitment to fiscal house cleaning and to shrinking its dangerously high budget deficit.
The package was crucial for Brazil to qualify for a backup loan from the International Monetary Fund and other sources, including the U.S. government, and to counter a $30 billion hemorrhage from Brazil's foreign reserves, which have fallen to about $42 billion.
The Clinton administration is concerned that a default in Brazil _ the world's ninth-largest economy and home to more than half of South America's 300 million people _ could trigger repercussions around Latin America, the destination of some 20 percent of U.S. exports.
With the IMF aid package expected to be announced within days, the revised 1999 budget sent to Congress on Monday suggests that Brazil may have overstated the level of actual government savings, and it raised questions about the true size of the government's effort.
Planning Minister Paulo Paiva and Martus Tavares, the government's executive secretary, could not be reached for comment.
David Fleischer, a professor at the Federal University of Brasilia and president of the Brazilian chapter of Transparency International, said the spending cuts were designed to restore confidence abroad with a show of discipline that is partly illusion.
``Maybe about half the savings is real,'' Fleischer said.
``The other half is pre-packed fat.
They stuffed it all in the budget in late August.''
The figure of $7 billion in budget cuts is not entirely without foundation.
But it is based on savings from a generous 1999 budget that, from the moment it was released in August, was acknowledged to be unrealistically optimistic.
The budget projected 4 percent economic expansion for 1999, just after Brazil had doubled the ceiling on interest rates to almost 50 percent, to counter a $1 billion a day flight of dollar reserves from the country after the Russian collapse.
Soon after it was released, the government conceded that the economy, instead of growing, would shrink by 1 percent next year, and some independent economists predict a more severe recession, noting that high interest rates are choking off the supply of capital for private industry.
Compared to this year's spending, the government's budget for next year shows some $3.8 billion in actual savings on discretionary expenses, with the budget dropping to $29.8 billion.
The original budget for next year projected $36.4 billion on discretionary expenses, which include a range of programs, including land purchases for agrarian reform and to extend basic sanitation.
But the Brazilian government's overall budget, because of court-ordered increases in salaries and benefits, will increase $1.9 billion next year, to $154.2 billion, despite its claims to austerity.
Though some economists, like Paulo Rabello de Castro, of the Rio-based Atlantic Institute, say they are confident that Brazil is on the road to righting itself, they appear discouraged by its current response to the crisis.
Even before this week's details appeared, economists criticized the Government for relying heavily on taxes increases and pension dues to raise more than half the promised revenues.
The government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is already fighting skepticism abroad, after he announced another austerity package a year ago, only to drop it as elections neared. 	''
When you're in a situation like Brazil is in, you usually have to do more than enough to win back confidence,'' Castro said.
``What came out of 1999 budget was slightly less than enough.''
Alexandre Barros, a political scientist and consultant in Brasilia, said he believed the big question surrounding Brazil was not so much the size of the cuts made now, but the government's ability to sustain lean spending practices over time. 	''
What I want to see is down the road,'' Barros said.
``What happens after three or six months as the immediate pressures recede, and people say, `Okay, Mr. President, why don't you revoke this or that austerity measure?'''
Tensions between Turkey and Syria reached a stage of "all but declared war."
Turkey accuses Syria of harboring militant Kurdish rebels.
Damascus denies sheltering Kurdish fighters.
Turkey attacks Kurds in northern Iraq and masses troops on its Syrian border.
Syria accuses Turkey of forming military and diplomatic alliances with Israel designed to subvert Syria and Arab states.
Further, Syria accuses Turkey of diverting water from rivers that flow through both countries.
Israel stresses that it has no part in the Turkey-Syria dispute.
Egypt's President Mubarak with Saudi and Arab support visits both countries to mediate the dispute and defuse tensions.
In October 1998 Turkish-Syrian dissension reached the level of undeclared was.
Turkey massed troops on the Syrian border, and Turkish jets buzzed the border.
Turkey has long accused Syria of aiding Syrian-based Kurdish rebels who make cross-border raids on Turkey.
Syria denies this and accuses Turkey of illegally diverting water from flowing into Syria.
Israel and Turkey signed military accords in 1995, and Syria says that the two are conspiring against Syria.
Israel denies this.
Turkey and Syria have also quarreled over a territorial issue.
Egyptian President Mubarak worked to ease tensions.
He led discussions in Ankara and Damascus.
Tensions have increased between Turkey and Syria, bringing the two countries to the brink of war.
Syria is displeased with Turkey's growing relationship with Israel.
Additionally, Syria has made territorial claims against Turkey and accused Turkey of diverting water from rivers that flow through both countries.
Turkey accuses Syria of abetting Kurdish rebel activity in Turkey and granting a safe haven to Kurdish rebels.
Turkey has raided Kurdish camps in Iraq and has massed troops on the Syrian border.
In an effort to diffuse the crisis, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has flown to Syria and Turkey.
Tensions between Turkey and Syria have reached a point causing the top Turkish  military commander to say they have reached "a state of undeclared war".
Turkey  accuses Syria of supporting Kurdish rebels in Turkey, a charge denied by Syria.
Syria is angry over Turkey's closer ties to Israel and alleges that Turkey, by  building dams on the Euphrates River, threatens its water supply.
Egypt's  President Mubarak has visited Saudi Arabia and Damascus and plans to continue to  Ankara hoping to defuse the crisis.
Israel claims "no part" in the tension.
Turkey has attacked Kurdish bases in Iraq and threatens those in Syria.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak arrived Saturday for a one-day visit to discuss regional problems with Saudi King Fahd and other high-ranking officials.
The talks will focus on the Middle East peace process and the recent military tensions between Turkey and Syria over Turkish allegations that Syria is harboring Turkish Kurdish rebels, diplomats said.
The two leaders also will discuss the U.N. air embargo on Libya, said the diplomats on condition of anonymity.
The embargo is aimed at forcing Libya to hand over for trial two suspects wanted for the 1988 bombing of an American jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland.
This is the first time that Fahd, who is in his mid-70s, is meeting with a foreign leader since undergoing surgery Aug. 12 to have his gallbladder removed.
Fahd's half-brother, Crown Prince Abdullah, handled the kingdom's day-to-day affairs during the king's hospitalization.
&UR; str-mae-vj
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt will go to Syria and Turkey to help cool tensions between the two countries, which appear to be edging toward a military conflict, a top Egyptian official said Saturday.
Mubarak ``will head within the next few hours to Syria and Turkey to hold discussions,'' Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said in Riyadh where Mubarak met with Saudi King Fahd earlier.
Turkey has reportedly massed troops and armored vehicles along its border with Syria after stepping up its accusations in recent days that Syria is supporting Turkish Kurdish rebels.
Syria denies sheltering the rebels and in a government statement Saturday confirmed ``its keenness for good neighborly relations with Turkey'' as well as its readiness to solve every issue through ``diplomatic ways, in an atmosphere of trust.''
Earlier Saturday, Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin said his forces would soon carry out an exercise near the Syrian border.
&UR; Moussa told, 5th graf
Israel is not involved in any way in the current, growing confrontations between Turkey and Syria, a spokesman said Saturday.
``Israel is not a part of this dispute and is not involved in it in any way,'' said Defense Ministry spokesman Avi Benayahu.
Turkey has amassed troops on the border with Syria and warned of a military confrontation following allegations that Syria is supporting Turkish Kurdish rebels.
Damascus in respoonse has accused Turkey and Israel of contriving against Syria through their increased military cooperation.
Israel and Turkey signed military accords in 1996 that outline joint defense maneuvers and grant Israel the use of Turkish air space.
Israeli experts say they doubt the relations with Turkey are such that either army would defend the other in the event of confrontations with a third party.
lc
About 10,000 Turkish soldiers have crossed into northern Iraq to attack Kurdish rebels, and the government said it might send forces into Syria to eradicate guerrilla bases there, news reports said Saturday.
Turkey's incursion into northern Iraq on Friday followed two days of airstrikes against suspected rebel bases, the daily Hurriyet said.
Turkish Kurdish rebels fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey wage cross-border raids from camps in Iraq, Iran and Syria.
The Ankara government accuses Syria of aiding the rebels, a charge Damascus denies.
In an effort to ease escalating tension between Syria and Turkey, Egypt said Saturday that Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak will travel to Damascus and Ankara for talks.
Necati Utkan, the Turkish foreign ministry spokesman, told the Anatolia news agency that Mubarak was expected to arrive in Ankara on Monday.
He did not elaborate.
The military did not return calls for comment.
The rebels, fighting for an autonomy in southeastern Turkey, stage hit-and-run attacks from bases in Syria, Iraq and Iran.
On Friday Turkey strongly warned Syria that its ``patience was running out,'' and Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz was quoted Saturday by the daily Hurriyet as saying, ``the soldier is awaiting an order.''
But an intelligence official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Saturday that the troop deployments were not targeting Syria, but infiltrations of Kurdish rebels.
Gen. Huseyin Kivrikoglu, chief of the general staff, has described the mounting tension with Syria as ``an undeclared war'' amid unconfirmed reports of troop deployments along the Turkish-Syrian border by both sides.
According to daily Cumhuriyet on Saturday, the military has reinforced its units near the border town of Reyhanli, with an artillery, an engineer and an infantry battalions.
On Saturday, Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin said Turkey would soon carry out an exercise near the Syrian border, private NTV television reported.
Turkey has never conducted wargames along the Syrian border.
The exercise was expected to follow current NATO maneuvers, running in an area close to Syria through Oct. 21.
In a show of force, Turkish jets buzzed along the Syrian border on Friday, daily Radikal reported Saturday.
Hurriyet newspaper said the Turkish units also sealed the escape routes of the rebels along the Syrian-Iraqi border inside northern Iraq.
Sezgin said Turkey was still trying to use diplomatic means to solve the problem.
``But there is a limit of patience,'' NTV quoted him as saying.
``Then we will do whatever necessary.''
Damascus denied the allegations and accused Turkey of plotting with Israel to create a crisis with the aim of undermining Syria.
In Jerusalem, Defense Ministry spokesman Avi Benayahu said Israel is not involved ``in any way'' in the Turkey-Syria confrontation.
Turkey often, 15th graf pvs
The Turkish government, which sent about 10,000 soldiers into northern Iraq to attack Kurdish rebels, has said it might send forces into Syria to eradicate guerrilla bases there, according to news reports.
Turkey's incursion into northern Iraq on Friday followed two days of airstrikes against suspected rebel bases, the daily Hurriyet said Saturday.
Turkish Kurdish rebels fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey wage cross-border raids from camps in Iraq, Iran and Syria.
The Ankara government accuses Syria of aiding the rebels, a charge Damascus denies.
Turkey warned the Syrian government Friday that its ``patience was running out,'' and Gen. Huseyin Kivrikoglu, chief of the general staff, has described the mounting tension with Syria as ``an undeclared war.''
Fueling tension between the two countries are Turkey and Israel's expanding military and diplomatic ties.
Syria claims the ties are a threat to the Arab world, and on Saturday, Damascus again accused Turkey of plotting with Israel to undermine Syria.
In Jerusalem, Israeli Defense Ministry spokesman Avi Benayahu on Saturday denied his country was involved ``in any way'' in the looming Turkey-Syria confrontation.
In an effort to head off a military conflict, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak flew to Damascus on Sunday for talks with Syrian President Hafez Assad and was expected to visit Turkey on Monday.
On Saturday, he traveled with Foreign Minister Amr Moussa to Riyadh for talks with Saudi officials.
In a, 8th graf pvs
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak flew here on Sunday to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey.
Mubarak was met at the airport by Syrian President Hafez Assad, and the two leaders drove straight to Assad's palace for talks.
The talks come as Turkey has massed forces near the border with Syria after threatening to eradicate Kurdish rebel bases in the neighboring country.
In a show of force on Friday, Turkish jets buzzed the Syrian frontier, a Turkish daily reported.
Mubarak had made an unannounced trip to Riyadh on Saturday to get backing from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for his mediation efforts.
Egypt, the Arab world's largest country with 60 million people, frequently tries to mediate Arab and Muslim disputes.
``We have to stop the tension and contain it, and military threats should stop,'' Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday.
``I am ready to exert every effort in this direction in Damascus and Ankara.''
Turkey's Foreign Ministry said Mubarak also was expected in Ankara, possibly on Monday.
Foreign Minister Amr Moussa, who accompanied Mubarak to Saudi Arabia and Syria, said Mubarak had consulted by phone on Saturday with Assad and also conveyed a message to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel through Turkey's ambassador to Egypt, Yasser Yakis.
Turkey long has accused Syria of sheltering Kurdish rebels, who have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish population in southeastern Turkey.
Late last week, Turkey sent 10,000 troops into northern Iraq to hit bases that Turkish Kurds use for their uprising.
Damascus denies sheltering Kurdish fighters.
A government statement Saturday confirmed Syria's ``keenness for good, neighborly relations with Turkey'' as well as readiness to resolve disputes ``in diplomatic ways, in an atmosphere of trust.''
For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the Jewish state.
Damascus also accuses Turkey of building a series of dams on the Euphrates River that threaten to reduce Syria's water supply.
&UR; str-eap
Signaling it does not want to be involved in any potential military confrontation between Syria and Turkey, Israel is limiting routine exercises along its own border with Syria.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also stressed Israel's hands-off approach to the escalating dispute between Damascus and Ankara.
``We have no part in this tension,'' Netanyahu told reporters in Jerusalem on Sunday.
``We have taken steps to reassure Syria.''
Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai instructed the army to limit military maneuvers along Israel's border with Syria to avoid giving any impression Israel is poised to act.
``Israel is not interested in confrontation with Syria, but rather in finding ways to renew talks,'' Mordechai's office quoted him Sunday as saying.
Turkey amassed troops, pick up 4th graf pvs
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak flew to Damascus on Sunday to try to defuse growing tension between Syria and Turkey.
Mubarak was met at the airport by Syrian President Hafez Assad, and the two leaders drove straight to Assad's palace for talks.
The talks come as Turkey has massed forces near the border with Syria after threatening to eradicate Kurdish rebel bases in the neighboring country.
In a show of force on Friday, Turkish jets buzzed the Syrian frontier, a Turkish daily reported.
Mubarak had made an unannounced trip to Riyadh on Saturday to get backing from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for his mediation efforts.
Egypt, the Arab world's largest country with 60 million people, frequently tries to mediate Arab and Muslim disputes.
``We have to stop the tension and contain it, and military threats should stop,'' Mubarak told Egyptian reporters on Saturday.
``I am ready to exert every effort in this direction in Damascus and Ankara.''
Turkey's Foreign Ministry said Mubarak also was expected in Ankara, possibly on Monday.
Foreign Minister Amr Moussa, who accompanied Mubarak to Saudi Arabia and Syria, said Mubarak had consulted by phone on Saturday with Assad and also conveyed a message to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel through Turkey's ambassador to Egypt, Yasser Yakis.
Turkey long has accused Syria of sheltering Kurdish rebels, who have been fighting since 1984 for more autonomy for the Kurdish population in southeastern Turkey.
Late last week, Turkey sent 10,000 troops into northern Iraq to hit bases that Turkish Kurds use for their uprising.
Damascus denies sheltering Kurdish fighters.
A government statement Saturday confirmed Syria's ``keenness for good, neighborly relations with Turkey'' as well as readiness to resolve disputes ``in diplomatic ways, in an atmosphere of trust.''
For its part, Syria has accused Turkey of forming military alliances with Israel that threaten Arab security and undermine Syria's bargaining position in peace talks with the Jewish state.
Damascus also accuses Turkey of building a series of dams on the Euphrates River that threaten to reduce Syria's water supply.
Tension between Turkey and Syria has risen to the point where the top Turkish military commander says the two hostile neighbors have reached ``a state of undeclared war.''
``We are trying to be patient,'' said the commander, Gen. Huseyin Kivrikoglu, ``but that has a limit.''
Syria has reacted angrily to Turkey's blossoming friendship with Israel.
It also makes territorial claims against Turkey and accuses Turkey of unfairly diverting water from rivers that flow through both countries.
For its part, Turkey is complaining ever more loudly about Syria's support for Kurdish insurgents in Turkey.
The insurgents are said to have bases in Syria, and their leader reportedly lives in Damascus.
Turkey and Syria are moving troops and equipment to border positions, according to news reports, but no outbreak of fighting is considered imminent.
``Intervention is out of the question,'' said Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin.
But he said, ``If they continue to do so much harm, then naturally diplomacy will finish.''
Turkish generals began issuing public warnings to Syria last month.
About the same time, during a visit to Israel, Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz dismissed Syrian contentions that Turkey and Israel have sealed a ``satanic alliance.''
``I don't care about Syria's reaction,'' Yilmaz said.
``Syria's hostile attitude is obvious.''
Asked if military ties between Turkey and Israel are based on shared hostility toward Syria, the prime minister replied, ``If we are going to talk about hostility, then we need to look very closely at Syria's support for separatist terror in Turkey.''
Turkey's military-dominated National Security Council discussed problems with Syria on Wednesday, and announced afterward that Turkey was considering imposing ``economic, political and military sanctions'' against Syria.
The next day Turkish President Suleyman Demirel asserted that Syria ``openly pursues a policy of hostility against Turkey.''
Syria has denied supporting Kurdish rebels.
Last week the official Syrian newspaper Al Baath said Turkey's newly assertive position ``is a result of full coordination between Ankara and Tel Aviv in accordance with their alliance.''
Turkish military commanders are frustrated by their inability to crush Kurdish guerrillas, and have for years been sending units into northern Iraq to attack their bases.
They have never sent troops into Syria, a step that would be explosive.
``This could be a sign of military frustration with the civilian government,'' said a Middle Eastern diplomat posted in Turkey.
``For a while the military was saying they had won the war and that it was time for the civilians to step in and take over.
Apparently they weren't too happy with what the civilians did or didn't do, so now they're taking a new tack.
They want to raise the issue in preparation for something.
What it will be, they're keeping vague.''
In another step in its new diplomatic offensive against Kurdish nationalism, Turkey has moved to improve its relations with Iraq.
The decision came after a deal brokered by the United States to bring two Iraqi Kurdish leaders together last month.
U.S. officials insisted that the deal was not intended to pave the way for a Kurdish state within a future Iraqi federation.
But Turkish leaders were not convinced.
They oppose federations or other arrangements in which Kurds rule themselves.
Turkey has recently suffered a series of setbacks in its diplomatic campaign to isolate Kurdish nationalists.
In August, local authorities in Lausanne, Switzerland, refused Turkey's request to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the signing of the Lausanne Treaty, which created modern Turkey, in the hall where the treaty was signed.
Kurdish groups had campaigned against the ceremony.
Soon afterward, a call from the guerrillas for a cease-fire won praise in several European capitals, despite Turkey's refusal to consider it.
And last week a group called the Kurdish Parliament in Exile has been meeting in Rome with the support of politicians from Italy and elsewhere.
``Italy made a mistake,'' said Korkmaz Haktanir, a senior foreign ministry official.
``How can a NATO member state host a terrorist organization that threatens the unity and territorial integrity of another NATO member state?''
In a sign of Arab concern over growing tensions between Turkey and Syria, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak flew on short notice to Syria on Sunday in an effort to defuse what is being portrayed in the Middle East as an unsettling crisis.
Mubarak met with Syrian President Hafez al-Assad and was expected to renew his mediation bid on Monday by traveling to Ankara, the Turkish capital, for meetings with top officials there.
Turkish officials have accused Syria of allowing the country to be used as a base for Kurdish rebels who have been fighting for self-rule in southeastern Turkey.
Official newspapers in Syria have denied the contention and have called for talks to end the dispute, as did the Syrian and Egyptian foreign ministers after their meeting Sunday.
The differences between the two countries include a territorial dispute and arguments over Turkey's diversion of water from the two rivers that flow into Syria.
A military conflict between Syria and Turkey is still considered remote, Egyptian officials said Sunday night.
But a Turkish warning that differences with Syria had reached the stage of ``undeclared war'' has prompted worries that if clashes began, they might spread.
``This is a fire that has been smoldering for a long time, but it has now reached the point at which it wouldn't take a whole lot more to turn it into a real blaze,'' a diplomat from Cairo said.
In this region, at least, the situation is considered explosive because of Turkey's new and friendlier relations with Israel.
The two countries signed a military cooperation agreement in 1996 and have conducted several joint exercises.
A number of Arab newspapers have suggested that Turkey's alignment with Israel may lie behind its toughened stance toward Syria.
A typical editorial, published Sunday in the independent al-Khaleej newspaper in the United Arab Emirates, said that it was ``notable that the sudden Turkish escalation has come in the framework of the military alliance with Tel Aviv, whereby Syria is placed between the hammer and anvil.''
Israel, for its part, has taken pains to distance itself from the crisis, saying it plans to scale down its military activity along its border with Syria to signal that it is not a party to the dispute.
The Arab League, which last month formally condemned the Turkish-Israeli ties, issued a statement Sunday saying that the tensions between Turkey and Syria represented ``a blatant threat to the security and stability of the region.''
But only Iraq among Arab countries has explicitly criticized Turkey for the hard line that it has taken against Syria.
Although Turkey has repeatedly stated its willingness to accept a diplomatic solution, its official statements have also maintained a vaguely threatening air.
``I am not only warning Syria, I am warning the world,'' the Anatolia news agency quoted President Suleyman Demirel as saying Sunday.
``This cannot continue.
We are in a position of self-defense.
The situation is serious.
Turkey has suffered for many years, and it no longer wants to suffer.''
With a change of government in Indonesia in 1998, supporters of independence for East Timor called for a referendum to decide the territory's future.
Indonesia offered only a degree of autonomy under Indonesian sovereignty.
Indonesia's claims of troop withdrawals from East Timor were contradicted by leaked official documents.
Violence increased with East Timorese attacking Indonesian soldiers and mass executions of East Timorese by Indonesian forces.
Portugal sided with East Timor.
A U.N. envoy mediating the dispute appeared optimistic about a plan for broad autonomy for East Timor under Indonesian sovereignty, but as 1998 moved towards a close the issue was not resolved.
Indonesia invaded East Timor in December 1975, a few months after the departure of Portugal's colonial administration.
It annexed the territory, 1,200 miles east of Jakarta, one month later.
The United Nations still considers Portugal the administering power and is sponsoring peace talks between Indonesia and Portugal.
Portugal and East Timorese pro-independence groups insist that a referendum be held to decide East Timor's future.
Pro-independence activists and Indonesian soldiers have clashed for years.
In 1991, Indonesian troops massacred at least 50 pro- independence protesters.
Portugal is trying to extradite former President Suharto for alleged human rights abuses committed under his authoritarian rule.
After several months of relative calm, killing resumed on October 30, 1998 in the disputed East Timor territory.
Three Indonesian soldiers were killed amid rumors that the military was increasing its presence in the territory.
Indonesia, which annexed the territory in 1975, had offered East Timor some autonomy, but would retain control of defense, foreign, and economic policy.
The East Timorese were seeking a referendum.
The United Nations was trying to mediate an agreement between Portugal and Indonesia.
Commemorations of the November 11, 1991 massacre added to the tensions.
Both sides accused the other of mounting new offensives and killings, kidnappings, and demonstrations continued.
The East Timor Human Rights Center accused the Indonesian military of executing  50 East Timorese, possibly in retaliation for an attack on the troops by rebels  in which three Indonesian soldiers died.
The Indonesian Human Rights Commission  said it would investigate the incident.
Indonesian President Habibie proposed  granting some autonomy to East Timor, which it invaded in 1975 and later annexed,  in exchange for its recognition of Indonesian sovereignty.
Independence activists  have rejected the offer and call for a referendum.
The U.N. never recognized  Indonesian rule over East Timor and is mediating talks between Indonesia and  Portugal, East Timor's former ruler.
Assailants killed three soldiers and a civilian in the disputed territory of East Timor, Indonesia's official Antara news agency reported Sunday.
A fourth soldier was missing and believed killed.
The military blamed pro-independence activists in the stabbing deaths Friday night of two soldiers and a civilian in Weberek, 40 kilometers (25 miles) southeast of Dili, the capital of East Timor.
Also Friday, masked men shot and killed a soldier in his home in Leorama, west of Dili, the military said.
There were no arrests.
The killings came after several months of relative calm in East Timor's long-running guerrilla war, which broke out in 1975 when Indonesian forces invaded the former Portuguese colony.
The head of East Timor's military, Col. Suhartono Suratman, said two pistols that the victims in Weberek had been carrying were missing.
Another soldier who was with them was believed killed but his body had not been found, he said.
Citing witness reports, Suratman alleged they were killed by demonstrators who attended a rally organized by the Solidarity Council of Students and Youths, a group that wants a referendum on independence.
Indonesia has ruled out the demand, offering instead a measure of autonomy in exchange for recognition of Indonesian sovereignty and the release of jailed East Timorese rebel leader Xanana Gusmao.
The army sergeant who was killed in Leorama, Josep Florindo Pereira, had just returned home from a service at a Roman Catholic church with his wife, Antara said.
Witnesses said two men shot him in the shoulder and abdomen while he and two other congregation members counted donations collected during the service.
A total of 10 assailants had surrounded the house of the East Timorese native, Antara added.
The killings occurred amid reports that the number of Indonesian troops in East Timor was more than 20,000, far in excess of the number claimed by the Indonesian government.
The Indonesian military has said there are 15,000 soldiers in East Timor, including 5,000 troops engaged in community work such as health care and engineering.
Indonesia annexed East Timor in 1976, a year after intervening in a civil war.
The United Nations does not recognize Indonesian rule and is sponsoring peace talks between Indonesia and Portugal, the former colonial master.
A U.N. envoy said Wednesday he was making progress in his efforts to mediate a settlement between Portugal and Indonesia on the disputed territory of East Timor, news reports said.
``Progress has been made and we'll pursue the (East) Timor issue with great commitment,'' United Nations mediator Jamsheed Marker was quoted as saying by the Portuguese news agency Lusa.
Marker, who was appointed 20 months ago to break the long-standing deadlock over East Timor, was in Lisbon for three days of talks with government officials, lawmakers and exiled East Timorese independence activists.
He said he was skeptical about recent reports of an Indonesian army offensive against a small band of pro-independence guerillas operating out of the jungle in East Timor's interior.
``From what I know from the talks I've had with the Indonesian authorities, I think it's quite unlikely they carried out such an action,'' Marker was quoted as saying by Lusa.
East Timorese opponents of Indonesia's rule claimed Sunday that some 2,000 Indonesian troops supported by helicopters launched an attack on the rebels.
Jakarta denied the claim.
Portuguese officials expressed concern about the reports, saying they could undermine confidence-building measures.
Indonesia invaded the territory of 800,000 people in December 1975, a few months after the departure of Portugal's colonial administration.
It annexed the territory, 1,200 miles (1,900 kilometers) east of Jakarta, a month later.
The resignation of authoritarian Indonesian President Suharto in May and the democratic changes introduced under his successor, B.J. Habibie, have brought fresh impetus to negotiations for a solution.
Portugal and Indonesia are mulling a new proposal to settle their dispute over East Timor, and talks between the two sides are at a crucial stage, according to a U.N. envoy.
Envoy Jamsheed Marker said late Thursday that the U.N. proposal envisages broad autonomy for the disputed Southeast Asian territory.
``We've reached a very important, and I might even say critical, moment in the talks,'' Marker told reporters after a dinner with President Jorge Sampaio.
He said the U.N. plan includes ``a proposal for very wide-ranging autonomy for East Timor,'' a former Portuguese colony that Indonesia invaded in 1975 and later annexed.
Lisbon and Jakarta have agreed to discuss the proposal which was ``couched in legal terms'' and could provide the foundation for a future Constitution for East Timor, Marker said, though he declined to give further details.
Marker, who was appointed 20 months ago to mediate a settlement on East Timor, was on the second day of a three-day visit for talks with Portuguese officials and East Timorese exiles.
After the May resignation of authoritarian President Suharto, Indonesia proposed granting some degree of autonomy to the territory of 800,000 people, but insisted on retaining control over its defense, economic and foreign policy.
Portugal and East Timorese pro-independence groups rejected that proposal and insisted a referendum be held inside the territory to decide its future.
Indonesia's military said Friday that it was ready to act against a threat from an East Timor rebel group to launch terrorist attacks.
``We will not tolerate any activity that threatens economic or military installations in East Timor or elsewhere in Indonesia,'' said military spokesman Maj. Gen. Syamsul Ma'arif.
In the Portuguese capital, Lisbon, an East Timorese group opposed to Indonesian rule in the disputed territory said Thursday that it was ready to resort to terrorism if Jakarta does not let six East Timorese asylum-seekers leave the country.
Azancot de Menezes, the exiled Lisbon representative of the Timor Socialist Party, said his group was ready to coordinate the attacks with pro-independence guerrillas based inside East Timor.
Indonesia invaded East Timor in 1975, after the departure of Portugal's colonial administration.
The pro-independence Timor Socialist Party wants Indonesia to permit the departure of six East Timorese holed up in the Austrian Embassy in Jakarta.
The party's secretary-general, Avelino da Silva, his wife and two daughters ages 4 and 6, and two other East Timorese clambered over the embassy compound's walls 14 months ago.
Indonesia's military have accused Da Silva and his wife of being members of a bomb-making gang, known as the Black Brigade.
The group allegedly planned to blow up civilian targets in their fight for East Timor's independence.
The Indonesian government has refused to let them leave the country and says they should be prosecuted.
Meanwhile, military officials said an Indonesian soldier was killed early Friday in Manufahi, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) southeast of Dili, East Timor capital.
The military blamed pro-independence rebels in the killing of the native East Timorese soldier, whose name was still not known.
The rebels also took his gun, said Col. Suhartono Suratman, chief of the local military.
Last Friday, two soldiers and one civilian were beaten to death by pro-independence activists in Manufahi, he said, without giving further details.
In Lisbon, Jamsheed Marker, the U.N. envoy for East Timor, said late Thursday that Portugal and Indonesia are mulling a new United Nations proposal that envisages broad autonomy for East Timor.
``We've reached a very important, and I might even say critical, moment in the talks,'' Marker told reporters.
Marker, who was appointed 20 months ago to mediate a settlement on East Timor, was on the second day of a three-day visit for talks with Portuguese officials and East Timorese exiles.
Rebels in the disputed territory of East Timor were holding two soldiers captive Wednesday after releasing 11 others they abducted in a deadly raid.
Three soldiers and one pro-independence activist were killed in the raid Monday on a military post, in which guerrillas stole seven guns, including some M-16 rifles.
Col. Tono Suratman, military chief in the former Portuguese colony, threatened an attack on the rebels if they did not free their captives.
``If they're not released, then we will have to use force,'' he said, adding that troops know where the rebel hideout is.
The soldiers were abducted in an attack by 50 rebels in Manufahi, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) southeast of Dili, the capital of East Timor.
In recent days, four other soldiers have been killed in attacks linked to the independence struggle in East Timor, which was invaded by the Indonesian military in 1975.
On Thursday, church Masses and a march are planned to coincide with the seventh anniversary of a massacre in which at least 50 people were killed when Indonesian troops fired on a pro-independence protest.
Human rights activists claim at least 200 people were killed.
On Wednesday, hundreds of people staged a candlelight vigil to commemorate the massacre anniversary.
Dozens of buses also brought people from outlying villagers into Dili for Thursday's planned ceremonies.
Indonesia annexed East Timor in 1976, a year after its troops intervened in a civil war that broke out during the last days of Portuguese rule.
The United Nations still considers Portugal the administering power.
More than 100 people held a candlelight vigil outside the Indonesian Embassy Thursday, demanding that President B.J. Habibie put an end to violence in East Timor.
They shouted, ``Free East Timor!''
and held banners that read ``Stop Military Oppression!''
as a small group of police watched nearby.
The peaceful protest in Kuala Lumpur was to commemorate the anniversary of a 1991 massacre of anti-Indonesian protesters.
Seven years ago, Indonesian troops fired on pro-independence protesters in Dili, the East Timor capital.
A government report put the death toll at 50.
Human rights activists say about 200 people were killed.
Earlier, a coalition of Asian activists denounced an offer by Habibie to give East Timor some autonomy in exchange for recognition of Jakarta's sovereignty over the region.
``We call for the Habibie administration to take genuine steps for a peaceful solution in East Timor,'' said Nadiah Bamadhaj, of the Malaysian East Timor Solidarity Group.
The activists also urged the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group to address the problem.
APEC officials have begun meeting in Kuala Lumpur ahead of the Nov. 17-18 summit.
``There is still ongoing struggle in East Timor,'' said Gus Miclat, of the Manila-based Asia-Pacific Coalition for East Timor.
``We hope the APEC leaders would address that.''
The coalition called for the release of the nearly 200 jailed activists, including rebel leader Xanana Gusmao.
He is serving a 20-year prison term for fighting Indonesian troops.
At the candlelight vigil, Miclat read aloud a message to the protesters that he said was obtained from Xanana in prison.
In the letter, Xanana called Habibie's efforts ``an unprecedented step,'' but said human rights abuses had to stop.
``Jakarta must commit itself to ending the activities of its soldiers, intelligence agents and paramilitary groups that continue to terrorize the population,'' Xanana said.
Meanwhile, some 10,000 mourners gathered at a graveyard in Dili, the provincial capital of East Timor, to lay flowers on the graves of the dead.
They lit candles as police watched from a distance.
Indonesia annexed East Timor in 1976, a year after its troops intervened in a civil war that broke out during the last days of Portuguese rule.
Stray bullets killed two villagers during a gunfight between separatist rebels and police in the northernmost Indonesian region of Aceh on Sunday, witnesses said.
A woman and a child died during the clash at Kandang village, about five kilometers (three miles) east of Lhokseumawe, the capital of North Aceh province, said Yacob Hamzah, a lawyer at the local legal aid office.
Police and military officials were not available for comment.
Aceh, about 1,750 kilometers (1,100 miles) northwest of Jakarta, is a strongly Muslim province where rebels have been fighting Indonesian forces for the past eight years in a bid to declare an independent Islamic state.
It is one of three Indonesian provinces hit by separatist conflicts.
The other two are Irian Jaya, a former Dutch colony on western New Guinea, and the former Portuguese colony of East Timor.
Indonesian legislators on Friday chided a Portuguese effort to extradite former President Suharto, describing the proposal as impossible and unreasonable.
Portugal's attorney general's office is examining a request from lawmaker Nuno Correia da Silva that Suharto be extradited for alleged human rights abuses committed in East Timor _ a former Portuguese territory annexed by Indonesia in 1976.
Sara Pina, a spokeswoman for the attorney general, said his office was looking at whether it's possible in Portuguese law.
Roestandi, a three-star general and chairman of the military faction at Indonesia's Parliament, said such a handover would be ``impossible.''
``Moreover, it is unreasonable because the East Timor issue is an internal affair of Indonesia,'' he said.
Meanwhile, Aisyah Amini, chairperson of the Parliament's commission dealing with foreign affairs, also criticized the proposal.
``The East Timor issue is not personal affair of Suharto, but the problem of the nation,'' she said.
Suharto, 77, ruled Indonesia with an iron fist from 1966 to last May when he was forced to quit following a wave of protests and riots in which 1,200 people died.
Suharto's successor and onetime protege, President B.J. Habibie, has offered to grant autonomy to the half-island territory in return for international recognition of Indonesian sovereignty there.
Indonesia annexed East Timor, a former Portuguese colony, after invading during a 1975 civil war that broke out when Portugal colonizers left.
Indonesian troops have been accused of widespread abuses in East Timor, 1,200 miles (1,900 kilometers) east of Jakarta.
Correia da Silva of Portugal's rightist Popular Party likens the bid to extradite Suharto with attempts in Britain to extradite former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet to Spain on charges that include genocide.
Pinochet is in London awaiting a House of Lords panel decision on whether to extradite him.
Opponents of Indonesia's control over the disputed territory of East Timor said Thursday that documents leaked from the Indonesian Ministry of Defense show that the army is not drawing down its forces in the territory as the government has reported.
The documents date from August, and the situation might have changed since then.
Indonesia's foreign minister, Ali Alatas, has said several times in recent weeks that Indonesia stood by its pledge to keep combat forces out of the territory.
But the documents show a total of more than 12,000 Indonesian troops assigned to East Timor, twice the number of soldiers that Indonesia says are based there.
They also show that the Indonesian army, known by its Indonesian acronym Abri, counts among its numbers the members of pro-Jakarta local youth groups, militias and public officials with ties to the army.
In the past the Indonesian government has always described these groups as spontaneous organizations.
The military documents put the number of people in these groups at 9,000, bringing the total military presence to more than 21,000.
A series of Indonesian army tables and charts were made available to The New York Times by the East Timor Action Network, a group that supports independence for the territory.
Human rights groups say they believe the documents are authentic.
The East Timor Action Network plans to make the documents public on Friday.
Indonesia invaded East Timor in 1975, a year after the former Portuguese colony was abandoned by Lisbon.
The documents cover a period of nine months that ended in August of this year, when a new Indonesian government announced that it had withdrawn more than 1,000 combat troops, and said that only about 6,000 defense forces remained.
None of the leaked documents track how figures may have changed since then.
Alatas, the foreign minister, is taking part in discussions with the Portuguese under U.N. auspices over the future of East Timor, which Lisbon and Jakarta agree should be given a large measure of autonomy.
The political opening provided by President B.J. Habibie, who took over after the fall of President Suharto in May, has resulted in rising tensions in the territory, and with them reports of new Indonesian military movements.
Sidney Jones, executive director of Human Rights Watch Asia, said in an interview in New York on Thursday that an increased atmosphere of openness since May has emboldened independence forces among the territory's 800,000 people, where calls for a referendum on the region's future are heard more often.
``The government is saying that it is going to give wide-ranging autonomy to East Timor,'' Ms. Jones said in New York.
``But at the same time it is beginning to use the term autonomy as synonymous with pro-integration, because autonomy means that you accept Indonesian sovereignty.''
``The resistance and pro-independence forces in East Timor are not only making themselves much more visible than ever before but also challenging that concept of autonomy much more openly than ever before.''
``So what used to be the clash between the pro-integration and anti-integration forces has become widespread tension as a result of differences over support for a referendum _ which is clearly the popular option _ and support for autonomy, which is clearly the government position,'' Ms. Jones said.
In Washington, a State Department official said that the United States has not been able to confirm reports that more Indonesian troops are going to East Timor, but that it has also not been able to verify how many were withdrawn in the summer.
``How you count people makes a big difference,'' the official said.
George Aditjondro, an Indonesian human rights activist who teaches the sociology of corruption at Newcastle University in Australia, where he has documented the wealth of the Suharto family, said on Thursday that he is certain that ``the documents came from Cilangkap, Indonesia's Pentagon,'' and that they are very revealing because of how they count people.
``They tell us that the number of soldiers in the field is nearly twice the number officially mentioned,'' he said in a telephone interview from Chicago, where he is attending a conference.
``The second thing is that maybe these are the first documents that put the paramilitary units, the counterinsurgency units, on Abri's payroll,'' Aditjondro said.
``The government previously called them spontaneous youth groups wanting to defend the integration of East Timor.''
He added that the documents show that ``the presence of the Indonesian state in East Timor is heavily militarized.''
Indonesia's National Commission on Human Rights will investigate accusations that soldiers executed as many as 50 people this month in the troubled province of East Timor in a military operation against armed rebels, the government said Tuesday.
Marzuki Darusman, the commission's vice president, said a senior commission member would investigate allegations of the executions and of arbitrary arrests by the armed forces between Nov. 10 and Nov. 16 in the subdistrict of Alas on East Timor's southern coast.
He said the investigator would be Clementino Dos Reis Amaral, a commission member from East Timor.
Citing ``very reliable sources,'' the former Portuguese governor of East Timor, Mario Carrascalao, said Tuesday that he has been told that 42 people had been executed and more than 40 wounded and that 200 others were missing in the Alas area.
Carrascalao, speaking in Jakarta, said he was willing to go himself to help investigate the allegations.
He said the area where the killings were reported was also a site for resettlement of Javanese under a contentious government program.
``I'd like to know the real truth about what happened,'' he said.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Tuesday that a team it sent to the area had found ``no confirmation of large-scale atrocities.''
Portugal, the former colonial ruler of East Timor, suspended U.N.-brokered talks with Indonesia in New York on Friday after receiving the first reports that civilians had been killed in an area where guerrillas are active.
Carrascalao said the talks were to resume today.
East Timor was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 and annexed the following year in a move never recognized by the United Nations.
In the East Timor capital, Dili, as many as 2,000 East Timorese students continue to occupy the local parliament building in protest against the alleged killings by the Indonesian troops.
The Australian-based East Timor Human Rights Center, considered the main watchdog group for East Timorese rights, issued a statement Tuesday accusing the Indonesian military of executing 50 East Timorese and arresting 30 others, including two teen-age girls.
It said it had identified 14 of those killed and expressed grave fears for the safety of the detainees.
``The killings and arrests in the Alas subdistrict have followed the recent buildup of Indonesian troops in the area,'' the report said, adding that the alleged killings may have been in retaliation for an attack on the troops by rebels of the East Timorese Armed Resistance in which three Indonesian soldiers were killed and 13 captured.
The report said that following the rebel attack on Nov. 9, troops attacked a village on Nov. 13, arresting and later killing the chief and four other people.
A report in the Dili-based newspaper Suara Timor Timur quotes the Indonesian military chief of East Timor, Col. Tono Suratman, as confirming the death of the chief, Vicente Xavier, and calling him a ringleader of the rebel attacks.
The opening of the Gaza International Airport was stipulated by the U.S.-brokered  Wye River accord.
Palestinians marked the event with euphoria.
The airport will  ease the claustrophobia of Gazans and provide a boost to the troubled Palestinian  economy.
Many Palestinians consider the airport a big step toward independence.
Although security remains in Israeli hands, Palestinians will no longer have to  travel to Jordan or Israel to travel abroad.
Flights are sometimes delayed when  the Palestinians and Israelis disagree on security procedures.
Since Wye, Israel  and Palestine have accused one another of reneging on agreements, and Israel has  frozen the accords.
Palestine, in a step toward statehood, opened and began operating its own airport  in Gaza under accords brokered by President Bill Clinton.
Israel retains control  over Gaza airspace and security over arriving passengers and cargo.
Jubilation  erupted among Palestinian airport officials and passengers as the first  Palestinian flight left Gaza~Rs Yasser Arafat International Airport bound for  Amman, Jordan.
The fledging Palestinian airline has two 50-seat Fokker 50s, and  a Boeing 727.
They are flown by PLO pilots trained by other Arab countries and  airlines.
Israeli officials soon threatened to close the airport and delayed  departure of some flights over security concerns.
The Gaza International Airport opened on 24 November 1998 after a delay of two years.
The airport was stipulated by the Clinton-brokered Wye River Accords.
Jordan, Morocco, Spain and the Netherlands helped finance its construction.
Palestinians were elated, considering the airport as a potential economic lifeline, and a step toward statehood.
Israel still controls the air space and oversees security.
Early operations were disrupted by Israeli-Palestinian security disputes.
The first Palestinian commercial flight occurred on 5 December 1998.
The Palestinian Airlines is tiny, but regular flights to Jeddah, Cairo and Amman are planned, and eventually pilgrimage flight to Mecca.
After a delay of almost two years because of security questions, the Palestinians opened their first international airport in a rare example of cooperation between Israel and Palestine.
Israel will continue to share security responsibilities at the airport with the Palestinians.
An Egypt Air plane was the first to touch down at the newly opened Gaza International Airport.
The highlight, however, was the landing of the first Palestinian Airlines plane.
Security concerns continue to plague the running of the airport as Israeli security officials first threatened to close down the airport and later delayed the departure of two planes because of security disputes.
Taking a major step toward statehood, the Palestinians on Tuesday inaugurated Gaza International Airport, their first gateway to the world, with cheers, tears and an outpouring of patriotism.
An Egypt Air plane was the first to land on the desert tarmac in the southern Gaza Strip at 8:30 a.m. (0630 gmt).
But the emotional highlight was the touchdown of the first Palestinian Airlines plane, a Fokker 50.
After landing, the pilot and co-pilot raised Palestinian flags high above their heads as they descended the stairway.
A chant of ``Allahu Akbar,'' or God is Great, rose from of a crowd of thousands of Palestinians who had pushed their way onto the airfield to join the celebrations.
``You are a beautiful sight,'' Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat later told the Palestinian crew in the VIP lounge lavishly decorated with deep red Oriental carpets and wall mosaics.
Throughout the morning, Arafat walked from the lounge to the tarmac seven times to greet planes from Egypt, Morocco, Jordan, Spain, the European Union and two Palestinian Airlines flights.
``This is a preparation for the declaration of the Palestinian state,'' Arafat said, smiling broadly and flashing a V sign.
However, Israel continues to control the airspace and has the authority to shut down the airfield at any time.
It will monitor arriving passengers and cargo, and can keep travelers or goods out if it considers them a danger to Israeli security.
Disputes between Israel and the Palestinian Authority over security had delayed the airport opening for more than two years.
In a sign of cooperation, Israeli and Palestinian security agents approached the Egypt Air jet together Tuesday and collected the passports of the passengers, including Egyptian Cabinet ministers and comedian Adel Imam, in white bags.
Throughout the morning, there were spontaneous celebrations.
As a police marching band played bagpipes, airport workers, policemen and Cabinet ministers held each other by their hands and danced in a circle.
Some kissed and embraced their neighbors, others wiped away tears and several officers waved their rifles in the air.
In one corner of the airfield, about 300 people gathered around a man and a boy riding mules that moved to the beat of drums.
The dlrs 75 million airport will provide a boost to the troubled Palestinian economy, permitting the export of Palestinian flowers and farm produce that until now were shipped out via Israel, often with difficulties and delays.
The airfield will also make it easier for Palestinians to travel abroad, although a majority of Gazans are probably too poor to be able to afford an air ticket.
Until now, Palestinians wanting to fly abroad needed permission to enter Israel and fly out of Ben Gurion International airport near Tel Aviv.
The other option was to travel by land to Jordan and catch flights there.
Palestinians living in the West Bank still need a permit to cross Israel into Gaza to get to the airport.
Travel is expected to become easier once a land route between the West Bank and Gaza opens next month.
Israel's government does not permit Israelis to use the Palestinian airport, citing security reasons.
However, Israeli Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that this might change in the future.
The opening of the airport was negotiated during last month's U.S.-sponsored Mideast summit near Washington.
As part of the accord, Israel also withdrew troops in the northern West Bank last week and released 250 Palestinian prisoners.
A Palestinian industrial park between Gaza and Israel is to open next month, while Israeli-Palestinian negotiations on a Palestinian seaport in Gaza are continuing.
Gaza International, with the call letters LVGZ, was designed in an Oriental style with graceful arches and elaborate tiles imported from Morocco.
The airport has one passenger terminal, a VIP lounge and a three-kilometer (two-mile)-long runway.
A 1-meter (4-foot)-tall poster of Arafat hangs from the control tower wall.
Palestine Airlines, with a small fleet that includes one Boeing 727, will begin direct flights to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia next week.
In the first weeks, airport operations will have to rely on some improvisation.
Major pieces of equipment, including the controls for the control tower, are still held up at the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Tuesday's planes were guided to a safe landing by a portable control panel installed in a van.
Despite its temporary shortcomings, many Palestinians consider the airport a big step toward independence.
For those living in the small, overcrowded Gaza Strip, which is ringed by the Mediterranean on one side and by barbed wire on the other three, it may help ease the feeling of being trapped.
``Now we will be able to travel without the Israeli procedures that we usually must go through,'' said Khaled Salmeh, who studies economics at Gaza City University and plans to fly next month to Saudi Arabia, for a pilgrimage to Mecca.
&UR; kl
Taking a major step toward statehood, the Palestinians on Tuesday inaugurated Gaza International Airport, their first gateway to the world, with cheers, tears and an outpouring of patriotism.
An Egypt Air plane was the first to land on the desert tarmac in the southern Gaza Strip at 8:30 a.m. (0630 gmt).
But the emotional highlight was the touchdown of the first Palestinian Airlines plane, a Fokker 50.
After landing, the pilot and co-pilot raised Palestinian flags high above their heads as they descended the stairway.
A chant of ``Allahu Akbar,'' or God is Great, rose from of a crowd of thousands of Palestinians who had pushed their way onto the airfield to join the celebrations.
``You are a beautiful sight,'' Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat later told the Palestinian crew in the VIP lounge lavishly decorated with deep red Oriental carpets and wall mosaics.
Throughout the morning, Arafat walked from the lounge to the tarmac seven times to greet planes from Egypt, Morocco, Jordan, Spain, the European Union and two Palestinian Airlines flights.
``This is a preparation for the declaration of the Palestinian state,'' Arafat said, smiling broadly and flashing a V sign.
However, Israel continues to control the airspace and has the authority to shut down the airfield at any time.
It will monitor arriving passengers and cargo, and can keep travelers or goods out if it considers them a danger to Israeli security.
Disputes between Israel and the Palestinian Authority over security had delayed the airport opening for more than two years.
In a sign of cooperation, Israeli and Palestinian security agents approached the Egypt Air jet together Tuesday and collected the passports of the passengers, including Egyptian Cabinet ministers and comedian Adel Imam, in white bags.
Throughout the morning, there were spontaneous celebrations.
As a police marching band played bagpipes, airport workers, policemen and Cabinet ministers held each other by their hands and danced in a circle.
Some kissed and embraced their neighbors, others wiped away tears and several officers waved their rifles in the air.
In one corner of the airfield, about 300 people gathered around a man and a boy riding mules that moved to the beat of drums.
The dlrs 75 million airport will provide a boost to the troubled Palestinian economy, permitting the export of Palestinian flowers and farm produce that until now were shipped out via Israel, often with difficulties and delays.
The airfield will also make it easier for Palestinians to travel abroad, although a majority of Gazans are probably too poor to be able to afford an air ticket.
Until now, Palestinians wanting to fly abroad needed permission to enter Israel and fly out of Ben Gurion International airport near Tel Aviv.
The other option was to travel by land to Jordan and catch flights there.
Palestinians living in the West Bank still need a permit to cross Israel into Gaza to get to the airport.
Travel is expected to become easier once a land route between the West Bank and Gaza opens next month.
Israel's government does not permit Israelis to use the Palestinian airport, citing security reasons.
However, Israeli Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that this might change in the future.
The opening of the airport was negotiated during last month's U.S.-sponsored Mideast summit near Washington.
As part of the accord, Israel also withdrew troops in the northern West Bank last week and released 250 Palestinian prisoners.
A Palestinian industrial park between Gaza and Israel is to open next month, while Israeli-Palestinian negotiations on a Palestinian seaport in Gaza are continuing.
Gaza International, with the call letters LVGZ, was designed in an Oriental style with graceful arches and elaborate tiles imported from Morocco.
The airport has one passenger terminal, a VIP lounge and a three-kilometer (two-mile)-long runway.
A 1-meter (4-foot)-tall poster of Arafat hangs from the control tower wall.
Palestine Airlines, with a small fleet that includes one Boeing 727, will begin direct flights to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia next week.
In the first weeks, airport operations will have to rely on some improvisation.
Major pieces of equipment, including the controls for the control tower, are still held up at the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Tuesday's planes were guided to a safe landing by a portable control panel installed in a van.
Despite its temporary shortcomings, many Palestinians consider the airport a big step toward independence.
For those living in the small, overcrowded Gaza Strip, which is ringed by the Mediterranean on one side and by barbed wire on the other three, it may help ease the feeling of being trapped.
``Now we will be able to travel without the Israeli procedures that we usually must go through,'' said Khaled Salmeh, who studies economics at Gaza City University and plans to fly next month to Saudi Arabia, for a pilgrimage to Mecca.
&UR; kl
The first Palestinian commercial flight landed at Amman's Marka Airport on Saturday, inaugurating an air route between Jordan and the autonomous Gaza Strip.
The Falcon F-50 short-haul plane carried 48 passengers, mostly Palestinian businessmen and students.
The plane will return later in the day.
Last weekend, the Palestinians inaugurated an airport in the Mediterranean city of Gaza under the U.S.-brokered Wye River accord which envisages Israel ceding more lands to the Palestinians in return for security guarantees.
Jasser Ziyyad, director-general of the Jordanian Civil Aviation Authority, said Jordan agreed with the Palestinians earlier in the week on four weekly flights between them _ two by the Palestinian airline and two for Jordan.
Meanwhile, Jordanian newspapers quoted unnamed Palestinian aviation officials as saying one more passenger plane will be added to the Palestinian fleet of three short-haul aircraft.
It said the addition was necessary to transport an estimated 3,600 Palestinian Muslims who wish to travel to Saudi Arabia in early March to perform the annual pilgrimage to holy shrines in that country.
&UR; jah-jjh/vj
Israel has threatened to close down the Palestinian-run Gaza airport over a security violation, an Israeli official said Tuesday, a move that could further undermine the already fragile peace process.
Palestinian airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane Sunday afternoon, most of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority, according to Civilian Airport Authority Director Nir Yarkoni.
``The Transportation Minister asked me to tell the Palestinians that if this continues, we won't allow the airport operate,'' he told The Associated Press.
Yarkoni said he conveyed the message in a letter sent Monday to chairman of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority Brig. Gen. Fayez Zeidan.
Zeidan was not immediately available for comment.
Israel retains security control over flights arriving to Gaza International Airport.
The airport's opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Since then, Israel has accused the Palestinians of failing to contain anti-Israel violence, and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel of reneging on an agreement to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel activities.
&UR; sb-rk
Israel has threatened to close down the Palestinian-run Gaza airport over a security violation, an Israeli official said Tuesday, a move that could further undermine the already fragile peace process.
Palestinian airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane Sunday afternoon, most of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority, according to Civilian Airport Authority Director Nir Yarkoni.
``The Transportation Minister asked me to tell the Palestinians that if this continues, we won't allow the airport operate,'' he told The Associated Press.
Yarkoni said he conveyed the message in a letter Monday to chairman of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority Brig. Gen. Fayez Zeidan.
Zeidan was not immediately available for comment.
Israel retains security control over flights arriving to Gaza International Airport.
The airport's opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Since then, Israel has accused the Palestinians of failing to contain anti-Israel violence, and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel of reneging on an agreement to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel activities.
Israeli security officials delayed two planes from taking off from the Palestinian airport on Wednesday, the latest tensions in a rare area of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.
A plane bound for Amman, Jordan was delayed for two hours over an Israeli demand that Palestinian officials inspect the luggage of a Palestinian passenger, Israel radio reported.
The plane left with the passenger aboard, but without his luggage.
Israeli officials also delayed a plane making a stopover from Saudi Arabia to Cairo, it said.
Israeli airport security officials were not available for comment.
Abdel Razek Yehia, a Palestinian official who helped negotiate the airport's opening, confirmed the delays.
He said such differences did not undermine the peace process.
``Every day we have differences,'' he told The Associated Press.
``We are all doing all our best to continue the peace process.''
The airport's opening last month, stipulated by the accords brokered by U.S. President Bill Clinton at Wye River, Maryland in October, was hailed by Palestinians as a milestone toward independence and statehood.
Israel retains security control over flights arriving at Gaza International Airport, and Palestinian security officials consult with their Israeli counterparts.
Earlier this week, Israel threatened to close down the Gaza airport when Palestinian airport workers refused to allow Israeli security officials to check the identity of passengers who arrived on an Egyptian plane, most of whom worked for the Palestinian Authority.
Palestinian officials said that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and his entourage were aboard the plane in question, and that exempted the plane from Israeli security checks.
Since Wye, Israel has accused the Palestinians of failing to contain anti-Israel violence, and has frozen the accords.
The Palestinians, in turn, accuse Israel of reneging on an agreement to release Palestinians jailed for anti-Israel activities.
(rk)
Israeli security officials delayed two planes from taking off from the Palestinian airport on Wednesday, marking the latest tensions in a rare area of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.
&UR; A plane, 2nd graf, pvs
Palestinians celebrated with euphoria the long-delayed opening of their international airport Tuesday as a parade of planes swooped down from cottony skies and glided to a literal red-carpet landing in the flatlands of Gaza.
With brass bands, bag-pipes and grandiloquent speeches, Palestinian officials made it clear that they see the sleekly modern airport as the most concrete symbol yet of their fledgling sovereignty.
The high emotion and pageantry Tuesday stood in stark contrast to the muted response last week to an Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank.
``This is my day of great joy as a Palestinian refugee,'' said Ahmad Abdel Rachman, the general secretary of the Palestinian Cabinet.
``I am standing on Palestinian soil, and I have an airport, I have a flag, I have an airplane.
This is our path to the independent Palestinian state.''
The airport, a potential economic lifeline to the depressed Gaza Strip, was completed more than a year ago, with about $60 million in grants from Egypt and Morocco as well as from Spain and other European Union countries.
But its fate became mired in the stalemated peace talks until the peace memorandum signed in Washington last month provided a breakthrough.
The Gaza International Airport, with 400 employees, will open for regular business next week.
Royal Air Maroc is expected to begin Gaza-Casablanca service.
And the Palestinian National Airline will fly routes to Amman, Cairo and Jidda with three planes: two Fokker 50s donated by the Netherlands, and a 20-year-old Boeing 727 given by Saudi Prince Walled bin Talal.
There are 20 pilots, most with Egyptian flying certificates.
``It may look like a little airport to you, but to us, it's bigger than John F. Kennedy,'' said Nabil Shurafa, a travel agent in Gaza City.
The alabaster towers of the new airport rise from a particularly hardscrabble stretch of southern Gaza near the Egyptian border.
Thousands of local residents pushed at its gates Tuesday morning, begging to be let into the closed ceremony, gaping at the elaborate, Moroccan-style architecture, and ducking with the whoosh of each landing plane.
For Mafa Barbakh, an elderly woman wrapped in black from head to toe, the moment was too important to experience from afar.
Like many, she said she had never even seen a plane before.
She wanted to be on the tarmac, to ululate and raise her hands to the heavens.
She finally did, when the gates were opened and the Palestinians swarmed the grounds _ chanting, dancing, laying down prayer rugs and otherwise making it their own.
``I want to fly to Mecca,'' she said.
``I hope God gives me this gift, to go up in the sky like a bird, on Palestinian wings.
Hey, we have Palestinian passports now.
I can travel with my Palestinian passport on a Palestinian plane.
This is Palestine!''
At 8:30 a.m., with a punctuality remarkable for Gaza, the first of seven planes landed: a white Airbus from Egypt, disgorging government officials and three actors.
One, a comedian, Adel Imam, caused the the Palestine National Airline's entire staff of flight attendants _ 18 women in navy pants suits and Muslim head scarves _ to jump up and down and squeal.
Aircraft carrying delegations from other principal donors to the project followed: the Jordanians, the Moroccans, the Spanish, the Dutch and, aboard an Israeli charter, some European Union officials.
The bagpipes, a holdover from the days of the British Mandate, seemed a disconcerting greeting to many who strode down the red carpet past upturned bayonets on their way into the V.I.P. lounge to see Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
Last week, the airport was named Yasser Arafat International Airport by Arafat's aides, and signs were duly posted.
But the Palestinian leader was not pleased.
The signs were taken down, and the original entry banner restrung: Gaza International Airport, it said Tuesday.
The V.I.P. lounge, a lavish building decorated with Moroccan mosaics, crystal chandeliers and a fountain, bears a gilded dome atop its roof, meant to echo the Dome of the Rock Mosque in Jerusalem.
In a way that irked Israeli officials, Jerusalem was itself a constant theme as Palestinian officials got swept away by the moment.
``God willing, we will open the Jerusalem Airport next,'' Arafat said.
``God willing, we will land soon at the Jerusalem Airport.''
The fate of Jerusalem will be debated in the final-status peace talks, which began last week.
The Israelis say it will remain undivided, but the Palestinians want to reclaim East Jerusalem, annexed by Israel in 1967, as the capital of their eventual state.
Last week, under the peace memorandum signed in Washington, the first phase of a three-part Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank tripled the amount of territory under complete Palestinian control.
Still, it was sparsely populated, rural land dotted with small towns and villages.
The Palestinian response was quiet, and Arafat received only two calls of congratulations from world leaders: one from Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, the other from a Norwegian official.
On Tuesday, in contrast, a who's who of the Palestinian leadership, flanked by dignitaries from the Arab world and Europe, declared the airport's opening a milestone, while the Palestinian police danced with their rifles in the air.
The officials said it would ease the claustrophobia of Gazans, who feel locked into their dusty strip of territory by Israeli border checkpoints most do not have permits to cross.
nn 	``These people in Gaza have been living in this ghetto since 1948,'' Abdel Rachman said, talking with foreign reporters.
``More than 60 to 70 percent have never left.
Now with free access to the rest of the world, they will feel they're human, like all of you.''
During the year-and-a-half delay before the airport opened, the Palestinian airline operated on a limited basis out of El Arish in Egypt.
Passengers traveled by bus across the border and often waited hours before departure.
Most business travelers flew out of Cairo; those who imported goods relied on Israeli ports or the airport in Tel Aviv.
``Now I'll be able to travel like a regular businessman, on overnight trips,'' Sayeed el-Madhoun, who owns a floor-covering company, said while videotaping the ceremony.
``And it'll make it easier and cheaper to bring materials in and out.''
When the airport opens for regular service next week, there will still be difficulties to resolve.
Some $15 million in donated equipment, including radar and high-tech air-traffic-control devices, has been held up in a dispute between Israel and the donor nations.
Most of it has sat in the port of Ashdod for the last year.
Now the Port Authority of Israel is demanding $650,000 in storage fees to release it.
And about $3 million in night-landing equipment donated by Germany has been held in Hamburg because the Germans fear similar difficulties with Israeli customs and security officials.
As a result, the airport will at first handle only daylight flights.
Also, the Israelis will retain considerable control over routes, flight schedules and security.
Israeli aviation officials, in fact, have described the Gaza airport as a new airport under Israel's jurisdiction.
As they do at some of the land crossings into Jordan, the Israelis will operate a kind of shadow document-checking system.
Palestinian officials will review passengers' documents, passing them behind a screen to Israelis.
Fadda Jabr, a former negotiator for the Palestinian Authority, brushed aside those issues as mere ``technical difficulties.''
``Today is the concrete evidence of the success of the camp of peace,'' he said.
``Now the ink of the agreement has turned into something we can see, we can touch and we can admire.
Lovely, isn't it?''
Cruising at 19,000 feet on Saturday in the cockpit of the first Palestinian Airlines flight to depart from Gaza's new international airport, Capt. Jamal Al-How from the Jabaliya refugee camp could not restrain himself.
``At this historic moment, taking off for the first time in history from a Palestinian airport, all the languages of the world cannot express my pride and joy,'' he declared.
``I thank the heroic Palestinian people, which sacrificed everything it had so that we could reach this moment.''
Earlier, applause rang through the cabin as the 48-seat Fokker 50 propeller plane, painted with the Palestinian national colors of red, green, black and white, took to the air.
Mohammad Abdel Salam from Bethlehem, the steward, greeted the passengers of Flight 152, inaugurating regular service from the Gaza airport, which was ceremonially opened last month.
``Welcome aboard the first flight from Yasser Arafat International Airport, bound for Amman,'' Abdel Salam said over the loudspeaker.
``Thank you for choosing Palestinian Airlines, and we wish you all a pleasant flight.''
Times have changed.
In the not-too-distant past, the combination of the words ``Palestinian'' and ``airplane'' evoked images of gun-waving hijackers from the PLO.
Now the Palestinians are running their own airline from Gaza, with planes flown by former PLO pilots, and Palestinian security men checking bags and passengers for would-be terrorists.
Established in 1996, the tiny Palestinian airline was an outgrowth of the accords with Israel on Palestinian self-rule.
It has two Fokker 50s received from the Netherlands, and a Boeing 727 donated by Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, which is still being prepared for service.
Starting operations in 1997 without a home airport, the airline's first flights left from Port Said in Egypt, ferrying Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia.
Regular service began a few months later from the Egyptian town of El Arish to Amman and to the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah.
Departing passengers had to make a night-long trek by bus from Gaza to El Arish, moving slowly through Palestinian, Israeli and Egyptian checkpoints to board flights that took far less time than the ground journey.
Flying from Gaza for the first time on Saturday, passengers remarked on the simple convenience of going directly from home to their local airport, avoiding Israeli interrogations and security checks at border crossings and at Ben-Gurion airport near Tel Aviv, Israel.
It enhanced their sense that, while there was no Palestinian state yet, something like one was emerging from the often-troubled negotiations with Israel.
``I drove here with my family, like anyone else in the world,'' said Ahmad al-Ghandour, a department head in the Palestinian Authority.
``I'm leaving like people do everywhere else, on your own plane, with your own passport.''
Mahfouz Othman, a psychiatrist from Rafah, said that he was relieved of the anxiety that often plagued his departures in the past, when he was worried that he might be turned back or detained.
``I feel that I'm keeping my dignity; these are Palestinians like us,'' he said as he handed his passport to a Palestinian police officer.
``At a personal, human level, this is a changing point in our lives.''
Not entirely.
A short while after Othman spoke, Palestinian security officers and Israeli counterparts keeping watch at the airport got into a dispute about departure procedures, delaying take-off for three-and-a-half hours.
Fayez Zaidan, the airline chairman, came to the passenger lounge to encourage his customers.
``We are with you facing the Israelis,'' he told them.
``This is your airport.''
In the end, the passengers were bused to the adjacent Rafah border terminal where they went through passport control under Israeli supervision, before returning to the plane.
A few hours later, returning passengers were delayed two hours at the same terminal for Israeli security and document checks.
But the first-day hitches did not mar the patriotic spirit on the first flight from Gaza, and its passengers were greeted with roses in Amman.
Regular flights to Jeddah and Cairo, Egypt, are scheduled to start in the next few days.
The airline expects to carry thousands to the annual Muslim pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia in March, and there are long-range plans to expand service to Cyprus, Turkey and Greece.
``I always imagined that it would come,'' said Zaidan, who is also head of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority.
``There were many obstacles and difficulties.
I'm very happy that I could achieve this goal of establishing a civil aviation authority from zero, an airport from zero, an airline from zero.
We did it.''
The company has sent some of its 400 employees to train in Morocco and Jordan, but the core of its crews and staff served in what was once the air wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization, or worked in airlines in the Arab world.
Palestinians also gained experience in the 1980s in Maldives Airways, which was effectively owned by the PLO, and in Air Bissau, a government-owned carrier in Africa in which the PLO was a major partner.
When it was still a guerrilla movement, the PLO sent volunteers to flight academies in Pakistan and Yugoslavia, and in the 1980s, Palestinian fighter pilots served in the air forces of Syria, Libya and Yemen.
The PLO air fleet consisted then of small transport planes and helicopters, used mostly for travel between the organization's headquarters.
``Like any revolution struggling for freedom, we were fighting for the liberation of Palestine,'' said Yassin al-Hawamdi, a pilot.
``Now we're building up a state.''
For now, however, Palestinians do not control their skies.
Take-offs and landings must be reported to the Israelis.
Flights from Gaza are barred from crossing Israel's southern air-space because there are military installations en route, compelling flights to Amman to detour over the Sinai peninsula, meaning that they take about 90 minutes.
Sophisticated landing equipment is still being held in an Israeli port, and planes only land and take off at the Gaza airport in daylight.
Yet for the Palestinian Airlines staff, operating their national carrier from their soil is a source of great satisfaction.
``I have traveled everywhere, to 70 countries,'' said Abdel Salam, the steward, who worked 15 years in Kuwait Airways.
``Now I feel different.
I'm taking care of my own people.
We waited a long time to realize our dream.''
Cruising at 19,000 feet on Saturday in the cockpit of the first Palestinian Airlines flight to depart from Gaza's new international airport, Capt. Jamal Al-How from the Jabaliya refugee camp could not restrain himself.
``At this historic moment, taking off for the first time in history from a Palestinian airport, all the languages of the world cannot express my pride and joy,'' he declared.
``I thank the heroic Palestinian people, which sacrificed everything it had so that we could reach this moment.''
Earlier, applause rang through the cabin as the 48-seat Fokker 50 propeller plane, painted with the Palestinian national colors of red, green, black and white, took to the air.
Mohammad Abdel Salam from Bethlehem, the steward, greeted the passengers of Flight 152, inaugurating regular service from the Gaza airport, which was ceremonially opened last month.
``Welcome aboard the first flight from Yasser Arafat International Airport, bound for Amman,'' Abdel Salam said over the loudspeaker.
``Thank you for choosing Palestinian Airlines, and we wish you all a pleasant flight.''
Times have changed.
In the not-too-distant past, the combination of the words ``Palestinian'' and ``airplane'' evoked images of gun-waving hijackers from the PLO.
Now the Palestinians are running their own airline from Gaza, with planes flown by former PLO pilots, and Palestinian security men checking bags and passengers for would-be terrorists.
Established in 1996, the tiny Palestinian airline was an outgrowth of the accords with Israel on Palestinian self-rule.
It has two Fokker 50s received from the Netherlands, and a Boeing 727 donated by Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, which is still being prepared for service.
Starting operations in 1997 without a home airport, the airline's first flights left from Port Said in Egypt, ferrying Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia.
Regular service began a few months later from the Egyptian town of El Arish to Amman and to the Saudi Arabian city of Jidda.
Departing passengers had to make a night-long trek by bus from Gaza to El Arish, moving slowly through Palestinian, Israeli and Egyptian checkpoints to board flights that took far less time than the ground journey.
Flying from Gaza for the first time on Saturday, passengers remarked on the simple convenience of going directly from home to their local airport, avoiding Israeli interrogations and security checks at border crossings and at Ben-Gurion airport near Tel Aviv, Israel.
It enhanced their sense that, while there was no Palestinian state yet, something like one was emerging from the often-troubled negotiations with Israel.
``I drove here with my family, like anyone else in the world,'' said Ahmad al-Ghandour, a department head in the Palestinian Authority.
``I'm leaving like people do everywhere else, on your own plane, with your own passport.''
Mahfouz Othman, a psychiatrist from Rafah, said that he was relieved of the anxiety that often plagued his departures in the past, when he was worried that he might be turned back or detained.
``I feel that I'm keeping my dignity; these are Palestinians like us,'' he said as he handed his passport to a Palestinian police officer.
``At a personal, human level, this is a changing point in our lives.''
Not entirely.
A short while after Othman spoke, Palestinian security officers and Israeli counterparts keeping watch at the airport got into a dispute about departure procedures, delaying take-off for three-and-a-half hours.
Fayez Zaidan, the airline chairman, came to the passenger lounge to encourage his customers.
``We are with you facing the Israelis,'' he told them.
``This is your airport.''
In the end, the passengers were bused to the adjacent Rafah border terminal where they went through passport control under Israeli supervision, before returning to the plane.
A few hours later, returning passengers were delayed two hours at the same terminal for Israeli security and document checks.
But the first-day hitches did not mar the patriotic spirit on the first flight from Gaza, and its passengers were greeted with roses in Amman.
Regular flights to Jidda and Cairo, Egypt, are scheduled to start in the next few days.
The airline expects to carry thousands to the annual Muslim pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia in March, and there are long-range plans to expand service to Cyprus, Turkey and Greece.
``I always imagined that it would come,'' said Zaidan, who is also head of the Palestinian Civil Aviation Authority.
``There were many obstacles and difficulties.
I'm very happy that I could achieve this goal of establishing a civil aviation authority from zero, an airport from zero, an airline from zero.
We did it.''
The company has sent some of its 400 employees to train in Morocco and Jordan, but the core of its crews and staff served in what was once the air wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization, or worked in airlines in the Arab world.
Palestinians also gained experience in the 1980s in Maldives Airways, which was effectively owned by the PLO, and in Air Bissau, a government-owned carrier in Africa in which the PLO was a major partner.
When it was still a guerrilla movement, the PLO sent volunteers to flight academies in Pakistan and Yugoslavia, and in the 1980s, Palestinian fighter pilots served in the air forces of Syria, Libya and Yemen.
The PLO air fleet consisted then of small transport planes and helicopters, used mostly for travel between the organization's headquarters.
``Like any revolution struggling for freedom, we were fighting for the liberation of Palestine,'' said Yassin al-Hawamdi, a pilot.
``Now we're building up a state.''
For now, however, Palestinians do not control their skies.
Take-offs and landings must be reported to the Israelis.
Flights from Gaza are barred from crossing Israel's southern air-space because there are military installations en route, compelling flights to Amman to detour over the Sinai peninsula, meaning that they take about 90 minutes.
Sophisticated landing equipment is still being held in an Israeli port, and planes only land and take off at the Gaza airport in daylight.
Yet for the Palestinian Airlines staff, operating their national carrier from their soil is a source of great satisfaction.
``I have traveled everywhere, to 70 countries,'' said Abdel Salam, the steward, who worked 15 years for Kuwait Airways.
``Now I feel different.
I'm taking care of my own people.
We waited a long time to realize our dream.''
In 1998  two Libyans indicted in 1991 for the Lockerbie bombing were still in  Libya.
In 1992 the U. N. voted sanctions against Libya for its refusal to turn  over the suspects.
Suffering from the sanctions, Gadhafi alternated between  defiance and acceptance.
In August of 1998 the U.N. proposed a trial in the  Netherlands under Scottish law which Libya accepted in principle, but insisted  that any sentence be served in the Netherlands or Libya.
The U.N. threatened a  tightening of sanctions.
Then, in late November, the U. N. Secretary General  hinted that he might broker an agreement.
Optimism arose, but the issue was  still in doubt.
Two Libyans were indicted in 1991 for blowing up a Pan Am jumbo jet over  Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988.
The United Nations imposed sanctions on Libya in  1992 because of their refusal to surrender the suspects.
The sanctions included a  ban on all international flights.
After six years of sanctions, Libyan leader  Moammar Gadhafi, faced with threats of additional sanctions, agreed in principle  to hand over the suspects.
The two suspects would be tried in the Netherlands by  Scottish judges under Scottish law.
Gadhafi wants guarantees, including a promise  that the suspects would serve their sentences in the Netherlands or Libya if  convicted.
Two Libyans, accused by the United States and Britain of bombing a New York bound  Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988, killing 270 people, for 10 years  were harbored by Libya who claimed the suspects could not get a fair trail in  America or Britain.
The U.N. imposed international air travel sanctions on Libya  to force their extradition.
The sanctions were honored by all but certain African  countries.
In 1998, a U.S.-Britain brokered compromise offered that their trial  to be held in the Netherlands.
Gadhafi, tired of sanctions and hoping for increased  tourism, actively pursued this compromise with UN Chief Kofi Annan.
In December 1988 a Pan Am jet was blown up over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270.
Two Libyan suspects were indicted in 1991.
Since 1992 Libya has been under U.N. sanctions in effect until the suspects are turned over to United States or Britain.
Sanctions include an air embargo.
African leaders disregard them.
Libya has fostered tourism to help the damaged economy.
In August 1998 United States and Britain proposed a Netherlands trial.
Libya agreed, but then asked for guarantees that the suspects, if convicted, would be incarcerated in Libya.
This delayed progress.
Kofi Annan planned a December 1988 Libyan trip to move negotiations.
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi said the suspects in the Lockerbie bombing are ''very happy'' to be tried in the Netherlands, and he hoped the trial would lead to a better relationship with the United States. 	''
We can solve this problem very easily,'' he told the British Broadcasting Corp. in an interview released Tuesday. ''
Then the families of the victims will be satisfied and get rid of this anxious problem.'' 	''
When peace comes between the two countries, they will shake hands and there will be peace.
After that such acts will automatically come to an end,'' Gadhafi said.
The United States and Britain have accused Libyans Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah of blowing up a Pan Am jumbo jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, killing 270 people.
Both men were indicted in 1991, and the United Nations imposed sanctions in 1992 to try to force Gadhafi to hand them over.
He argued that the two would not be guaranteed a fair trial in either Britain or the United States.
But after nearly a decade of deadlock, the U.N. Security Council approved a U.S.-British plan in August for a trial of the two Libyans in the Netherlands overseen by Scottish judges following Scottish law.
Libya has accepted the idea in principle, but Gadhafi has demanded negotiations to ensure the safety of the suspects.
He also wants the men, if convicted, to serve their sentences in Libya or the Netherlands.
Britain and the United States have refused to negotiate.
Gadhafi did not discuss that obstacle in the BBC interview.
But he did seek to distance himself from the two men, who the United States and Britain say are Libyan agents. 	''
They may be guilty or not guilty,'' Gadhafi told the BBC. ''
That is the job of the court to decide.
If they are guilty, it is because there is revenge between individual Libyans and America.
Perhaps these Libyans took their own revenge against America.''
Gadhafi also claimed to have evidence backing up allegations by a former British spy that Britain plotted to kill the Libyan leader.
The British government has denied using its foreign intelligence service in any part of an assassination attempt, but Gadhafi told the BBC, ''Yes, yes, it happened.'' 	''
Britain was behind this campaign of assassination.
There is evidence and when the time comes we will bring this evidence forward,'' he said.
Last month, an Arab television company broadcast a video of what it said was a 1996 assassination attempt against Gadhafi by British intelligence agents.
The footage showed an object flying through the crowd at a rally and landing at Gadhafi's feet.
Gadhafi and his bodyguards looked down at the object, and moved calmly away.
In some of the images, the object appeared to be a superimposed grenade.
David Shayler, the renegade spy who made the claim about the assassination attempt, is currently being held in prison in Paris.
He is due in court Wednesday for an extradition hearing.
If returned to Britain, Shayler faces the prospect of being charged under the Official Secrets Act because of his revelations about the intelligence agency.
(mb)
Libya has denied U.S._British allegations that it is delaying the hand-over of two men wanted for the blowing up of an American airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland.
The Foreign Ministry said Libya ``does not accept the claim that it is procrastinating to gain time as the other sides claim,'' the official Libyan news agency said Wednesday in a report received in Cairo.
Earlier this week, U.S. Secretary of Sate Madeline Albright and British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook accused Libya of delaying the case and warned it would face stiffer U.N. sanctions if it did not hand over for trial two Libyans wanted for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which killed 270 people in 1988.
In July, the U.N. Security Council backed a U.S._British plan for the two suspects to stand trial in the Netherlands.
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, who had long called for a trial in a neutral country, accepted the proposal in principle, but called for further negotiations and later insisted that, if convicted, the suspects serve their sentences in a Libyan jail.
The plan calls for sentences to be served in a British prison.
The Libyan foreign ministry said it was astonished by the ``harmony'' between the British and U.S. statements which ``confirms Libya's warning that the British-American initiative is nothing more than a trick.''
Libya has been under U.N. sanctions since 1992 to force it to hand over the defendants.
The sanctions include a ban on air links with Libya, an arms embargo and a partial ban on the sale of oil equipment.
The statement said Libya had sent a legal team to the United Nations to discuss the guarantees for the suspects in the event of a trial in the Netherlands.
It was still waiting for answers from the parties concerned.
The U.N. secretariat has called for a meeting between all parties on Nov. 9, the statement added.
&UR; bm-jbm
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe arrived in Egypt Monday after meeting with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi.
It was not clear if his plane flew directly from Libya in violation of a U.N. air embargo on the North African state.
African countries voted in June to ignore the U.N. flight ban which was imposed in 1992 to try and force Libya to hand over for trial two suspects wanted in the 1988 bombing of an American airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland.
The blast killed 270 people.
Mugabe arrived in Libya Saturday, apparently by plane in violation of the air embargo.
Several African leaders, including the heads of the Congo, Chad and Sudan, have ignored the sanctions since the vote.
&UR; ms-lm
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe arrived Monday in Egypt after meeting with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi.
It was not clear if his plane flew directly from Libya in violation of a U.N. air embargo on the North African state.
African countries voted in June to ignore the U.N. flight ban that was imposed in 1992 to try and force Libya to hand over for trial two suspects wanted in the 1988 bombing of an American airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland.
The blast killed 270 people.
Mugabe arrived in Libya Saturday, apparently by plane in violation of the air embargo.
Several African leaders, including the heads of the Congo, Chad and Sudan, have ignored the sanctions since the vote.
Newspapers reported Wednesday that three top Libyan officials have been tried and jailed in the Lockerbie case, but Libyan dissidents said the reports appeared to be a political ploy by Libya's leader, Col. Moammar Gadhafi.
An Egyptian source, who like the Libyans spoke on condition of anonymity, said he heard nothing about any such trials during meetings with leading officials on a just-ended trip to the Libyan capital Tripoli.
The reported jailing of the three officials comes as Gadhafi is under pressure to accept a plan to turn over for trial two other Libyans wanted for the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, that led to 270 deaths.
Two London newspapers, The Guardian and the leading Arabic daily Al-Hayat, reported Wednesday that three top intelligence chiefs at the time of the airliner bombing had been convicted and imprisoned in Libya.
The Guardian said Abdullah al-Senussi, Musa Koussa and Mohammed al-Misrati were sentenced to between five and seven years in prison earlier this month.
Quoting ``well-placed sources,'' the Guardian said the charge filed against the three was ``dereliction of duty'' but gave no further details.
Al-Hayat's report said it had questioned Libyan Justice Minister Mohamed Belgasim al-Zuwiy about the purported trials, but he had replied only ``trials are going on all the time.''
Both the Guardian and Al-Hayat suggested that the jailing of the three was aimed at blocking their testimony at a trial of the two Libyan suspects which, under a plan approved by the U.N. Security Council, would be heard by Scottish judges in the Netherlands.
After refusing for years to turn over the two men for trial in the United States or Britain, Libya recently accepted in principle the proposed trial in The Hague, Netherlands, but has delayed in actually turning over the two suspects.
The two suspects accused by the United States and Britain, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, were allegedly Libyan intelligence agents.
The Libyan dissidents said the jailings were probably a total invention leaked by Gadhafi's government.
One dissident said the three men had been close associates of Gadhafi for decades and were ``too valuable for Gadhafi to dispose of them.''
Al-Senousi was head of the Libyan intelligence service and Koussa was in charge of its foreign operations during the 1988 bombing.
The third man, al-Misrati, was a senior official in the Revolutionary Committees, Gadhafi's ruling party.
The dissidents said Gadhafi's long resistance to turning over the two suspects stemmed from fear that their testimony would directly implicate his government in the bombing.
Libya has been under U.N. sanctions since 1992 to force it to hand over the two defendants in the Lockerbie case.
The sanctions include a ban on air links with Libya, an arms embargo and a partial ban on the sale of oil equipment.
&UR; sn-ggl-jbm
Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Wednesday that he may travel to Libya next week in hopes of closing a deal to try two Libyan suspects in the Pan Am Lockerbie bombing.
Annan is heading to North Africa beginning Thursday to resume a visit cut short to deal with the Iraq crisis.
A Libyan legal team has been meeting regularly with Annan's legal counsel to discuss a U.S.-British proposal to try the suspects in the Netherlands, according to Scottish law and using Scottish judges.
Because of some positive developments over the past few weeks, ``there is now a good chance that the suspects might finally be brought'' to trial, a U.N. source said on condition of anonymity.
There is ``a sense of optimism,'' he said.
Libya had accepted the proposal in theory, but had objected to its call for the suspects to be jailed in a Scottish prison if found guilty.
The Tripoli government has insisted that the suspects serve any prison time in Libya or the Netherlands.
It wasn't immediately known if Libyan officials had indicated some flexibility on that point, which diplomats have said was Libya's major concern.
Annan said he had hoped that there would be some breakthruogh by the end of November.
``If that doesn't happen, I will be in the region next week and the question has been raised if it would be helpful for me to go there and bring the issue finally to closure,'' he said.
``I haven't made up my mind yet, but it has not been excluded,'' he said.
Two Libyans, Abdel Basset Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, are accused of planting the suitcase bomb that ripped apart the New York-bound Pan Am jet on Dec. 21, 1988, killing 270 people in the air and on the ground at Lockerbie.
For 10 years, the United States and Britain had demanded the two be tried in the United States or Britain, but agreed in August to a trial in the Netherlands in hopes of finally bringing the issue to a close.
The Security Council endorsed the plan and agreed to suspend sanctions once the two men are turned over.
Council members also agreed to consider additional sanctions if Libya didn't produce the suspects.
&UR; MORE
Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Wednesday that he is considering a trip to Libya next week that could close a deal to try Libyan suspects in the Pan Am Lockerbie bombing.
Annan is heading to North Africa beginning Thursday to resume a visit cut short to deal with the Iraq crisis.
A Libyan legal team has been meeting regularly with Annan's legal counsel to discuss a U.S.-British proposal to try the suspects in the Netherlands, according to Scottish law and using Scottish judges.
Because of some positive developments in recent weeks, ``there is now a good chance that the suspects might finally be brought'' to trial, a U.N. source said on condition of anonymity.
There is ``a sense of optimism,'' he said.
Libya had accepted the proposal in theory, but objected to its call for the suspects to be jailed in a Scottish prison if found guilty.
The Tripoli government has insisted the suspects serve any prison time in Libya or the Netherlands.
It wasn't immediately known if Libyan officials had indicated some flexibility on that point, which diplomats have said was Libya's major concern.
Annan said he had hoped that there would be some breakthruogh by the end of November.
``If that doesn't happen, I will be in the region next week and the question has been raised if it would be helpful for me to go there and bring the issue finally to closure,'' he said.
``I haven't made up my mind yet, but it has not been excluded,'' he said.
Two Libyans, Abdel Basset Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, are accused of planting the suitcase bomb that ripped apart the New York-bound Pan Am jet on Dec. 21, 1988, killing 270 people in the air and on the ground at Lockerbie.
For 10 years, the United States and Britain had demanded the two be tried in the United States or Britain, but agreed in August to a trial in the Netherlands in hopes of finally bringing the issue to a close.
The Security Council endorsed the plan and agreed to suspend sanctions once the two men are turned over.
Council members also agreed to consider additional sanctions if Libya didn't produce the suspects.
The sanctions, which include an air embargo, were imposed to force Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi to turn the men over.
Annan said his discussions on the proposal had been ``very constructive.''
The U.N. source said Annan wouldn't travel to Libya unless he had a sense that he could achieve a breakthrough.
Louis Farrakhan, the leader of a U.S. Muslim group, met with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi on Sunday and congratulated him on his recovery from a hip injury, state-run Libyan radio reported.
Improved health will enable Gadhafi to ``carry on his leading role in the service of Islamic causes in the world,'' Farrakhan was quoted as saying by the radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp.
Later, state-run television showed Gadhafi _ dressed in a brown robe and holding a cane _ meeting Farrakhan at his ceremonial tent in the Libyan capital, Tripoli.
The broadcast was monitored in Cairo.
Gadhafi underwent surgery last July after injuring his hip, reportedly while exercising.
The visit was Farrakhan's fifth to Libya in the past three years.
The leader of the U.S.-based Nation of Islam most recently visited in December 1997.
It was not immediately clear how Farrakhan arrived in Libya or how long he would stay.
Most visitors arrive by ferry from Malta or travel overland from Egypt or Tunisia; U.N. sanctions imposed in 1992 ban air travel to and from the country.
Farrakhan repeatedly has urged an end to the sanctions, which were imposed to try to force Gadhafi to surrender two Libyans wanted in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270 people.
Citing the sanctions and U.S. regulations, the Treasury Department prohibited Farrakhan from accepting a dlrs 250,000 prize he was awarded by Gadhafi in September 1996 for human rights work.
The Treasury also barred his group from accepting Gadhafi's offer of a dlrs 1 billion gift for Nation of Islam activities.
Among majestic Roman ruins set against an azure sea, Sebastian Cuisenier walked alone, a rare visitor to a site that almost anywhere else in the world would be thronged with tourists.
``I've always liked pariah countries,'' Cuisenier, 27, a Frenchman from Marseilles, said when asked why he had included Libya to a two-month journey through the region.
``And I have a certain sympathy for people who are battling against imperialism.''
As unlikely as it may sound, at least for now, the Libyan authorities are trying hard to persuade more people like Cuisenier to take the same step.
It was not until three years ago that Libya even established a Ministry of Tourism.
Under U.N. sanctions, which prohibit international flights, the only way to reach the country is to travel overland or by ferry.
Since 1995, Libyan officials say they have counted 88,000 visitors, about one-third as many as arrive in neighboring Egypt in an average month, and Western diplomats say they suspect that even this number may be inflated.
But Libya, which earns 96 percent of its income from oil, has nevertheless now pronounced tourism to be ``the industry of the 21st century.''
And if real and psychological barriers could be removed, one diplomat said, ``the potential is absolutely stunning.''
Scattered along Libya's 1,100-mile Mediterranean coast are Greek, Phoenician and Roman ruins that together comprise one of the region's richest archaeological treasures.
Sabratha, 45 minutes west of Tripoli, the capital, was first inhabited by the Phoenicians in the sixth century B.C. and also boasts a Roman theater restored in the 1920s by Italian experts.
The largest collection of ruins, at Leptis Magna, 90 minutes to Tripoli's east, are the remains of what was once a city of 100,000 people, and are listed by the United Nations as a World Heritage Site.
The beaches are described by foreign residents as the cleanest in the Mediterranean.
The vast desert includes another World Heritage Site, the oasis of Ghadames, a trading post 400 miles south of Tripoli that was first inhabited more than 4,000 years ago by the ancient ancestors of today's Tuareg population.
In Wadi Mathendush, in the Akarkous Mountains, rock drawings can be found that date from neolithic times.
Slowly, government officials say, they are making progress in luring visitors to such sites.
A crowd that gathered recently for a cultural festival in Ghadames included the designer Pierre Cardin.
Most tourists are retired, and many are Italians, curious about a land that Italy colonized from 1911 to 1943, and willing to endure the five-hour trip to Tripoli from Djerba, Tunisia, the nearest international airport.
Tour buses and visitors with cameras dangling from their necks are no longer a strange site on Tripoli's streets, although both are still scarce enough to satisfy those who have lost their appetite for crowds.
``It is almost empty, and I like quiet empty places,'' said Francois Lemaire, 63, of Vendome, France.
``What I like most is that I know there are very few tourists here, so it means I can have some peace.''
Mohammed Gattus, Libya's undersecretary of tourism, said that a recent two-day conference held in Tripoli was intended to help train local tour operators in order to put the industry ``on a sound foundation.''
But as Cuisenier and others wryly pointed out, the obstacles to travel within Libya _ particularly by independent visitors _ remain considerable.
The official exchange rate is wildly inflated, and the government has not yet settled on a plan to establish a more realistic rate for tourists.
Distances are enormous, and most must be traveled by car.
One effect of the U.N. sanctions, imposed since 1992 because of Libya's refusal to surrender suspects accused in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am airliner, has been to ground most of the country's domestic air fleet.
At the same time, the fact that tourism as a phenomenon has been relatively recent, and that the ideology propounded by Col. Moammar Gadhafi, the Libyan leader, declares their country is a ``state of the masses,'' has created what Cuisenier described as ``not exactly a service-oriented economy.''
Still, Libyan officials say they are confident that when and if the U.N. sanctions are lifted, tourism may indeed become big business.
And ordinary Libyans say they are resentful that animosity from the West, and particularly from the United States, has served to overshadow what they regard as rich attractions.
``My message is simple: we cannot ignore America,'' Salah el-Fathali, the executive director of the National Cancer Institute, said during a chance encounter as he guided two visiting French doctors around the Sabratha site.
``But at the same time, you cannot ignore us.''
Outwardly at least, nearly everything on display in Libya these days seems calculated to project defiance.
Posters plastered on downtown streets mock six years of U.N. sanctions, hailing as heroes African leaders who have flown to Libya in violation of an international ban on air travel here.
The new backdrop for state television broadcasts is now a map of Africa, not the Arab world, a slap at Arab neighbors accused of being too timid to join Libya's quest to get the sanctions lifted.
A sign affixed to the seaside Grand Hotel captures the spirit exactly, if ungrammatically.
``Hand's Off Libya!''
it declares.
And yet behind this stubborn facade there are indications that the Libyan leader, Col. Moammar Gadhafi, might at last be close to accepting a compromise that could bring an end to his country's isolation, imposed for its failure to hand over two suspects wanted in the bombing of Pam Am flight 103 over the tiny Scottish village of Lockerbie in 1988, in which 270 were killed.
Although he has sent mixed signals about it, Gadhafi may be carefully weighing a deal, proposed in August by the United States and Britain, that would require Libya to surrender the two suspects for a trial in the Netherlands.
Libya has agreed to the offer in principle, after many years of refusing to hand the suspects over for trial in Britain or the United States.
But it is insisting on certain guarantees, including a promise that the suspects would serve their sentences in the Netherlands or Libya if convicted.
Still, Tripoli-based diplomats say they believe that Gadhafi is sincere in wanting to go forward with the arrangement, in part because many ordinary Libyans have begun to get fed up with the U.N. penalties.
``I'm quite sure that the Libyans want to solve the problem,'' a Western ambassador here said.
``Perhaps at the beginning the embargo didn't make things too hard for the regime.
But over time, I think, it's becoming harder and harder.''
The U.N. sanctions ban only international flights to and from Libya and the sale of arms and certain other restricted goods.
Other trade, including oil, moves freely between Libya and other countries by road and sea.
If Libya does not agree to the U.S.-British proposal, the Security Council has warned that it will consider tightening sanctions further, with measures that could include a ban on Libya's sales of oil.
But because backing even for the current measures is clearly withering not only in Africa but in other countries around the world, it is far from clear that the Security Council could make good on that threat.
That raises the possibility that even with discomfort at home, Gadhafi may ultimately conclude that his best option is to wait the crisis out.
For now, though, one clear indication that Libya is acting in earnest, diplomats say, is the government's dismissal in September of a lawyer, Ibrahim Legwell, who for seven years headed the suspects' defense team.
Legwell had criticized the U.S.-British proposal as inadequate, and in an interview in his offices here, he said that the fact that he had been replaced reflected a desire for greater flexibility.
``It seems that the government doesn't like somebody who says no,'' he said.
A new team of lawyers, headed by Kamel al-Makhour, traveled to New York in October to discuss with U.N. legal officials the arrangements for a possible trial.
And in their first televised appearance in four years, the two Libyans accused of carrying out the bombing told the London-based Arabic-language satellite channel MBC in October that they were ready to stand trial if their safety was guaranteed.
In an interview published on Oct. 18 in the Sunday Times of London, Gadhafi was quoted as saying that he wanted to see an end to confrontation with the West over the Lockerbie case.
``Our people want peace,'' he said.
``They want to be friends.''
In another interview, broadcast on Oct. 22 on the BBC, the Libyan leader Gadhafi distanced himself from whoever may have carried out the 1988 bombing, saying that the bombers may have been taking ``their own revenge'' against the United States for its 1986 air and missile raid on Libya.
At issue is the fate of the two suspects, Abdel Basset Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, who the United States and Britain have said were Libyan intelligence agents.
The two were indicted in 1991 after an investigation concluded that they had carried out the bombing by planting an explosive in a suitcase.
Their former lawyer, Legwell, said that the two men had spent the last six years ``not in custody exactly'' but without passports and suspended _ albeit with pay _ from their jobs with Libyan Arab Airways.
After Libya refused to extradite the two, Britain and the United States successfully pushed for the U.N. sanctions, which were imposed in 1992 and include a ban on arms sales and all international flights.
But those measures have failed to persuade Gadhafi to hand over the suspects and, in the meantime, international support for the sanctions has withered in some quarters.
Gadhafi himself has violated the flight ban on several occasions, but the United Nations has responded with little more than a scolding.
And in the last two months, several African leaders _ including the heads of state of Niger, Chad, Mali, the Central African Republic, Eritrea, Gambia and Uganda _ have defiantly traveled to Libya by plane, acts that were officially condoned by the Organization of African Unity.
The 22-member Arab League has been less daring, trying to serve as an intermediary in discussions with Britain and the United States, but choosing at a meeting last month not to flout the sanctions.
It was that decision that infuriated Gadhafi, who during his 29 years in power has always been an ardent proponent of Arab unity.
Within a matter of days, the Libyan leader pronounced that ``the Arab world is finished,'' the map of the Arab world was removed from state television, and the government announced that it had eliminated its Ministry of Arab Unity.
This week it even advised the Arab League that it had decided to downgrade its ``permanent'' status at the organization to that of a ``resident delegation.''
In interviews here, Arab and Western diplomats acknowledged that such pique underscored an unpredictability that made it impossible to know whether Gadhafi would ultimately accept the U.S.-British plan.
But they said they believed that Gadhafi had been genuinely surprised by the offer, extended on Aug. 24.
nn 	Although the plan is essentially the same one Gadhafi himself long proposed, the Libyan leader initially dismissed it as one bound to be ridden with tricks.
It calls for the two suspects to be tried in the Netherlands by Scottish judges under Scottish law and promises that the U.N. sanctions will be lifted as soon as the suspects are surrendered.
The United States has described the offer as non-negotiable.
But the Libyan leader has raised many questions, including how the appeals would be handled, where the suspects would be imprisoned if convicted, and how their rights would be protected.
Diplomats say they believe that Gadhafi is plainly concerned that the two men will be used by prosecutors to make a case against Libya itself, which some in the West believe had a hand in the bombing.
Still, they say, any Libyan reluctance to accept the deal is almost certainly counterbalanced by worries that a refusal might well prompt the United Nations to make good on a threat to tighten the sanctions, which Libyans see as less and less tolerable.
One Libyan government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, conceded in an interview that if Libyans were asked their frank opinion, the vast majority would say that the suspects should be surrendered to bring an end to sanctions.
While the sanctions do not bar Libya from selling oil, which provides 95 percent of its export earnings, they have made life uncomfortable.
Sales of arms and certain other goods, including airplane parts, are prohibited, and domestic air service within Libya _ with a territory larger than Alaska _ has ground nearly to a halt.
And since international air travel is also banned, Libyans who want to travel abroad must begin their journey either by ferry, on an overloaded vessel that makes an overnight crossing from Tripoli to the Mediterranean island of Malta, or with an arduous overland journey across the border into Egypt or Tunisia.
In October 1998, under pressure from Turkey, Syria expelled Abdullah Ocalan,  leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), identified as a terrorist  organization.
.
Ocalan was rumored to be in Russia.
Turkey asked Russia to  extradite Ocalan, but Russia would not even confirm his presence there.
In  mid-November Ocalan suddenly arrived in Rome on a flight from Moscow and was  immediately arrested.
Turkey called for Ocalan=s extradition from Italy.
Although  as a NATO ally Italy might grant Turkey's request, it had consistently refused to  extradite anyone facing the death penalty as Ocalan clearly would in Turkey, so  the outcome remained in doubt.
Abdullah Ocalan's Kurdish Workers Party fought for autonomy in Turkey since 1984,  causing 37,000 deaths.
Turkey and the US labeled him a terrorist.
Turkey threatened  to attack Syria unless Ocalan was expelled.
He fled to Russia and requested  asylum.
Russia's parliament unanimously asked Yeltsin to grant it, while denying Ocalan's  presence.
Turkey asked Russia to extradite him.
Greek and Italian parliaments invited  him to visit.
Kurds in Armenia and Cyprus staged hunger strikes and demonstrated in  his support.
Ocalan flew from Moscow to Rome under a false passport.
Italy had to  arrest him on landing, given the serious charges.
Ocalan requested Italian asylum.
Italy has refused extraditions to capital punishment countries.
Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdish Workers Party (PKK), was detained on November 12, 1998, in Rome as he got off of a flight from Moscow.
Turkey, where he is on trial in absentia, is seeking his extradition.
Germany also has issued an arrest warrant.
The PKK has been fighting Turkey for autonomy since 1984.
After heavy Turkish pressure, Syria had expelled Ocalan on October 21.
Although his location was not known for several weeks, he sought political asylum in Russia.
He is now expected to ask for asylum in Italy.
Ocalan's odyssey has spawned demonstrations in Armenia and Cyprus.
Syria acceded to Turkish demands that it stop supporting the rebellious PKK and  expel the group's leader, Abdullah Ocalan, averting a military crisis.
Turkey calls  the PKK, which seeks an autonomous Kurdish state in Turkey, a terrorist organization  and Ocalan the country's most wanted criminal.
Nearly 37,000 people have died in the  conflict.
Ocalan, the subject of a Turkish international arrest warrant, was detained  in Rome after arriving there from Moscow where he had sought asylum.
It is uncertain  whether Italy will agree to Turkey's extradition request.
Meanwhile, hunger strikes  to protest Ocalan's detainment have occurred in Nicosia and Armenia.
Foreign Minister Ismail Cem said Wednesday Turkey was remaining cautious towards neighboring Syria despite a deal with Damascus to crack down on a Kurdish rebel group.
Turkey and Syria stuck the deal Tuesday, ending a weeks-long standoff.
Under the deal, Syria agreed to brand the Kurdish Workers Party, or PKK, a ``terrorist'' group and to clamp down its activity in Syria.
``These results are very important,'' Cem told a group of businessmen.''
But we have to be careful about their applications.
We shall be observing developments with caution.''
Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz said rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan had left Syria for Russia, which would be a sign Damascus was meeting Turkish demands.
Sabah newspaper he was hiding in Odintsovo, 30 kilometers (18 miles) west of Moscow.
Russian officials, however, said they had no information on Ocalan entering Russia.
Ocalan's PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey since 1984 in a war that has claimed 37,000 lives.
Russia's parliament on Wednesday asked President Boris Yeltsin to offer political asylum to Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, who is wanted in Turkey on charges of heading a terrorist organization.
Turkey officially asked Russia last week to extradite Ocalan, who leads the banned Kurdish Workers Party, or PKK, which has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey since 1984.
The conflict has killed an estimated 37,000 people.
Communist lawmaker Yuri Nikiforenko initiated the move seeking asylum for Ocalan.
``This man has done a lot for the Kurdish people,'' he said.
The State Duma, parliament's lower house, supported Nikiforenko's proposal by a unanimous vote.
Russia's Foreign Ministry last month condemned the Turkish government's raids against Kurdish rebels in Iraq and demanded that Turkey withdraw its troops.
Ocalan's whereabouts are unclear.
Turkey says he recently left Syria for Russia, but Russian officials have refused to confirm that he is in the country.
Turkish newspapers have said Ocalan was in hiding in a suburb 30 kilometers (18 miles) west of Moscow.
Ocalan issued a statement last month saying he was somewhere in the Kurdish regions that stretch over parts of Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Syria.
(vi/gm)
Russia's parliament on Wednesday asked President Boris Yeltsin to offer political asylum to Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, who is wanted in Turkey on charges of heading a terrorist organization.
Turkey officially asked Russia last week to extradite Ocalan, who leads the banned Kurdish Workers Party, or PKK, which has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey since 1984.
The conflict has killed an estimated 37,000 people.
Communist lawmaker Yuri Nikiforenko initiated the move seeking asylum after Ocalan wrote the State Duma, parliament's lower house, thanking it for supporting his cause.
Ocalan had officially requested asylum, Interfax reported.
``This man has done a lot for the Kurdish people,'' Nikiforenko said.
The Duma supported Nikiforenko's proposal by a unanimous vote.
Russia's Foreign Ministry last month condemned the Turkish government's raids against Kurdish rebels in Iraq and demanded that Turkey withdraw its troops.
In his letter to the Duma, Ocalan accused the Turkish government of trying ``to annihilate the leadership of the Kurdish Workers Party, drown in blood the national liberation struggle by the Kurdish people and thus pave the way for their control of the entire Middle East.''
Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit criticized the Duma vote, and said he hoped President Boris Yeltsin would `take on a realistic and constructive approach.''
``Instead of forging ties with a terrorist organization like the PKK, (Russia) should keep good relations with a country like Turkey,'' Ecevit told reporters in Ankara, the Turkish capital.
Ocalan's whereabouts are unclear.
Turkey says he recently left Syria for Russia, but Russian officials have refused to confirm that he is in the country.
Turkish newspapers have said Ocalan was in hiding in a suburb 30 kilometers (18 miles) west of Moscow.
Ocalan issued a statement last month saying he was somewhere in the Kurdish regions that stretch over parts of Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Syria.
The foreign ministry on Friday protested the invitation by 109 Greek deputies to a Kurdish rebel leader to visit Greece.
In a statement, the ministry said that the invitation ``would only encourage terrorist activities.''
``We strongly protest the action of the Greek parliamentarians and await the Greek government decision to clarify its position toward this invitation,'' the statement read.
The open invitation to Abdullah Ocalan, leader of the outlawed Kurdistan Worker's Party, was issued Thursday.
Turkey has in the past accused Greece of harboring and training Kurdish rebels who have been fighting for autonomy in Turkey's southeast since 1984.
Close to 37,000 people have died in the conflict.
Greece denies the charges, though the group's political wing has an office in Athens.
Turkey and Greece are at odds over numerous issues, including the division of Cyprus and territorial disputes in the Aegean.
Turkish officials claim that Ocalan is currently hiding in Russia.
Seven female members of a Kurdish group were on a three-day hunger strike Tuesday in support of a controversial Kurdish leader, whom they claim is being persecuted.
The women, who began their protest Monday at the Freedom for the Women of Kurdistan building in the Armenian capital, were dancing, singing and watching Kurdish television on Tuesday.
The walls in the room were adorned with portraits of Abdullah Ocalan, who leads the banned Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK.
The group has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey since 1984.
``Fighting against imperialism, fascism and the colonial policy of Turkey, we are approaching the victory in the cause of liberation of our people,'' the women said in a statement.
Kurds elsewhere were also demonstrating in support of Ocalan, said the PKK leader in Armenia Mraz Khumoyan.
Ocalan has been labeled a terrorist by Turkey and the United States.
Turkish leaders say Ocalan is currently hiding in Russia, but Russian officials have refused to confirm that he is in the country.
Last week, Russia's parliament passed an appeal asking President Boris Yeltsin to offer political asylum to Ocalan.
Officials say Yeltsin is unlikely to heed parliament's appeal.
(str/nw/gm)
Abdullah Ocalan, leader of Kurdish insurgents who has been sought for years by Turkey, has been detained in Rome after stepping off a plane from Moscow, Turkish and Italian officials said Friday.
Necati Bilican, Turkey's police chief, said his country would do whatever necessary to extradite the rebel leader.
Ocalan leads the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984.
Nearly 37,000 people have died in the conflict.
Turkey considers the group a terrorist organization.
Italian officials said Ocalan was picked up on arrival Thursday night at Leonardo da Vinci airport in Rome.
Ocalan is wanted under an international arrest warrant, according to Turkish authorities.
He is on trial in Turkey in absentia on charges of leading a terrorist organization, threatening the country's territorial integrity and ordering killings, charges than can bring the death penalty.
Germany also issued an arrest warrant in January 1990 that accuses Ocalan of ordering the killing of PKK deserters and being the head of a terrorist organization.
Turkey's Anatolia news agency said its envoy in Rome was making an immediate extradition request, but it could run into difficulties.
Although there have been no executions in Turkey since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to extradite anyone if there was even a risk of capital punishment.
Luca Cosson, an official of Rome police, said that Ocalan flew to Rome from Moscow and was carrying a false passport.
They then made further checks and discovered his identity, Cosson said.
Claiming he was not feeling well, Ocalan asked to be taken to a hospital, the Italian official said.
It was unclear why Ocalan would travel to Italy, which is not known to be a hub for Turkish Kurdish rebels.
However, the so-called Kurdish Parliament in exile was recently invited by Italian deputies to hold a session in the capital.
A Kurdish news agency said he would ask for political asylum in Italy.
Ocalan, was reportedly forced to leave his hideout in Damascus following Turkey's threats to strike Syria.
Ankara claims Syria has long supported the rebels, offering them arms and refuge.
According to Turkish officials, Ocalan had fled to Russia and sought political asylum from Moscow.
Of Marxist inspiration, the PKK was founded by Ocalan, a political science dropout from Ankara university in 1978.
Ocalan turned the group toward armed struggle in 1984.
The Turkish army claims it all but wiped out the PKK within Turkey, but the rebels have hideouts in Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting continues.
(ht-sf-vls)
The leader of a 14-year-old Kurdish insurgency, considered a terrorist by Turkey and its most-wanted criminal, has been arrested in Rome, setting up a major battle with Italy over his extradition.
Abdullah Ocalan was arrested after stepping off a plane from Moscow, where he had sought asylum after recently fleeing his hideout in Syria, Turkish and Italian officials said Friday.
Ocalan leads the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984.
Nearly 37,000 people have died in the conflict.
Italian officials said Ocalan was picked up on arrival Thursday night at Leonardo da Vinci airport in Rome because of an outstanding Turkish warrant.
``Once identified, the Italian government had the obligation to go ahead with his arrest given the serious charges against him,'' said Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini.
Ocalan is on trial in absentia in Turkey on charges of leading a terrorist organization, threatening the country's territorial integrity and ordering killings, charges than can bring the death penalty.
Germany also issued an arrest warrant in January 1990 that accuses Ocalan of ordering the killing of PKK deserters and being the head of a terrorist organization.
Although there have been no executions in Turkey since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to extradite anyone if there was even a risk of capital punishment.
Luca Cosson, an official of Rome police, said that Ocalan flew to Rome from Moscow and was carrying a false passport.
Further checks revealed his identity, Cosson said.
Ocalan was held in a Rome prison, pending a hearing on Turkey's request for extradition.
No hearing date was immediately set.
Earlier reports said he was being treated in a hospital after complaining of feeling unwell.
In Turkey, Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz, who has been on the political ropes in a corruption scandal, hailed the arrest as evidence the government's crackdown on the rebels was succeeding.
``As a result of the pressure we have applied on Syria, our struggle against terrorism has reached a very positive stage,'' Yilmaz said.
He said he asked through Italy's ambassador to Ankara for Ocalan's extradition and that Turkey's envoy in Rome made the same request.
``As our NATO ally we do not believe that Italy would make the wrong decision,'' Yilmaz said.
It was unclear why Ocalan would travel to Italy, which is not known to be a hub for Turkish Kurdish rebels.
However, the so-called Kurdish Parliament in exile was recently invited by Italian deputies to hold a session in the capital.
A Kurdish news agency said he would ask for political asylum in Italy, a call also taken up by leftist politicians in the Italian parliament, who asked their government to grant it.
Ocalan was reportedly forced to leave his hideout in Damascus following Turkey's threats to strike Syria.
Ankara claims Syria has long supported the rebels, offering them arms and refuge.
Of Marxist inspiration, the PKK was founded by Ocalan, a political science dropout from Ankara university in 1978.
Ocalan turned the group toward armed struggle in 1984, finding fertile ground among poor Kurds in the underdeveloped southeast.
The Turkish army claims it all but wiped out the PKK within Turkey, but the rebels have hideouts in Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting continues.
The leader of a 14-year-old Kurdish insurgency, considered a terrorist by Turkey and its most-wanted criminal, has been arrested in Rome, setting up a major battle with Italy over his extradition.
Abdullah Ocalan was arrested after stepping off a plane from Moscow, where he had sought asylum after recently fleeing his hideout in Syria, Turkish and Italian officials said Friday.
Ocalan leads the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984.
Nearly 37,000 people have died in the conflict.
Italian officials said Ocalan was picked up on arrival Thursday night at Leonardo da Vinci airport in Rome because of an outstanding Turkish warrant.
``Once identified, the Italian government had the obligation to go ahead with his arrest given the serious charges against him,'' said Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini.
Ocalan is on trial in absentia in Turkey on charges of leading a terrorist organization, threatening the country's territorial integrity and ordering killings, charges than can bring the death penalty.
Germany also issued an arrest warrant in January 1990 that accuses Ocalan of ordering the killing of PKK deserters and being the head of a terrorist organization.
Although there have been no executions in Turkey since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to extradite anyone if there was even a risk of capital punishment.
Luca Cosson, an official of Rome police, said that Ocalan flew to Rome from Moscow and was carrying a false passport.
Further checks revealed his identity, Cosson said.
Ocalan was held in a Rome prison, pending a hearing on Turkey's request for extradition.
No hearing date was immediately set.
Earlier reports said he was being treated in a hospital after complaining of feeling unwell.
In Turkey, Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz, who has been on the political ropes in a corruption scandal, hailed the arrest as evidence the government's crackdown on the rebels was succeeding.
``As a result of the pressure we have applied on Syria, our struggle against terrorism has reached a very positive stage,'' Yilmaz said.
He said he asked through Italy's ambassador to Ankara for Ocalan's extradition and that Turkey's envoy in Rome made the same request.
``As our NATO ally we do not believe that Italy would make the wrong decision,'' Yilmaz said.
It was unclear why Ocalan would travel to Italy, which is not known to be a hub for Turkish Kurdish rebels.
However, the so-called Kurdish Parliament in exile was recently invited by Italian deputies to hold a session in the capital.
A Kurdish news agency said he would ask for political asylum in Italy, a call also taken up by leftist politicians in the Italian parliament, who asked their government to grant it.
Ocalan was reportedly forced to leave his hideout in Damascus following Turkey's threats to strike Syria.
Ankara claims Syria has long supported the rebels, offering them arms and refuge.
Of Marxist inspiration, the PKK was founded by Ocalan, a political science dropout from Ankara university in 1978.
Ocalan turned the group toward armed struggle in 1984, finding fertile ground among poor Kurds in the underdeveloped southeast.
The Turkish army claims it all but wiped out the PKK within Turkey, but the rebels have hideouts in Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting continues.
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) - About 100 Kurds began a hunger strike in the main square of Nicosia on Saturday to protest the detention in Italy of Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan.
Men and women wearing white shrouds danced to Kurdish music blared through loudspeakers beneath the Venetian walls of the old city.
Several hundred Kurdish refugees have fled their homeland for this Mediterranean island nations.
Red and gold flags of the outlawed Kurdish Workers Party of Turkey, known as the PKK, fluttered over huge cloth banners with slogans in English and Greek calling for Ocalan's release.
Ocalan is the leader of the PKK which has been waging an rebellion in southeast Turkey for the past 14 years in a demand for autonomy.
Turkey has branded him a terrorist, holding him responsible for nearly 37,000 deaths in the conflict.
Italy announced that Ocalan was arrested on arrival at Rome's airport Thursday on the basis of an outstanding Turkish warrant.
The protesters distributed pamphlets by the National Liberation Front of Kurdistan, the PKK's political wing.
These quoted Ocalan as saying he flew to Rome with the knowledge of the Italian government.
He was further quoted as saying that ``necessary procedures are under way so that I can remain in this country (Italy) in my political capacity.
But it is too early to say anything positive or negative on developments.
``I call on our people, our friends and the entire international community to watch developments closely.''
&UR; ae-ggl
A three-week-old crisis between Turkey and Syria appears to have been at least temporarily defused by the signing of an agreement in which Syria agreed to stop supporting Kurdish rebels, who are demanding a homeland in Turkey.
Turkey had demanded that Syria cease all support for the guerrilla force known as the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, which is fighting for a Kurdish homeland in southeastern Turkey.
It also demanded that Syria expel the guerrillas' leader, Abdullah Ocalan.
According to a text made public by Turkish officials, the agreement stipulates that Syria ``will not allow the PKK to receive military, logistic or financial support or to carry out propaganda on its soil.''
Ocalan's current whereabouts are unclear.
He asserted in a telephone interview with journalists last week that he is ``in Kurdistan,'' which could mean either southeastern Turkey or northern Iraq.
Other reports place him in Russia, Cyprus, Iran or Armenia.
Some say he remains in Damascus.
``He has been in a Moscow suburb for a week,'' Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz of Turkey said on Tuesday.
``We have taken serious initiatives for his extradition.''
The Russian ambassador in Turkey, Alexander Lebedev, denied that Ocalan was in Russia.
Turkey set off the crisis this month by threatening to take military action against Syria if it did not stop supporting Kurdish rebels.
Officials from the two countries met on Monday and Tuesday in southeastern Turkey.
The agreement has not yet been officially announced in Syria, but Turkish officials said that it had been signed by a senior Syrian officer, Gen. Adnan Badr al-Hassan, and that they assumed it represented Syria's official position.
``This document should be considered as an agreement which ends the crisis and starts dialogue,'' said Necati Uktan, a spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry.
``Syria extends its hand of friendship to us,'' Uktan said.
``If everything is realized on the framework of the agreement, we will then shake this hand.
If we consider the worst scenario and think that this will not be realized, our military measures will be enforced at this stage.''
The two countries were brought together in part through the efforts of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
``We are pleased that we helped defuse the crisis between the two countries,'' Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said in Cairo Wednesday.
``All we care about is that both sides reach a settlement, which could certainly spare the region lots of tension.''
Turkish officials had insisted that talks with Syria cover only the question of support for Kurdish insurgents.
They said they would not discuss Syria's grievances against Turkey, which include water issues and the status of Hatay Province, which is part of Turkey but claimed by Syria.
On Tuesday a Syrian television station broadcast a commentary asserting that Hatay ``is an integral part of Syria and cannot be surrendered.''
Foreign diplomats in Turkey who monitor developments in the Middle East said they would reserve judgment on the accord announced Wednesday.
``The Syrians have always said that they don't support the PKK and that Ocalan is not there,'' a diplomat said.
``So what they've promised doesn't really change much officially.''
``The proof is in the pudding,'' said the diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
``Let's see how the Turks manage to pull off verification.
I don't expect them to go in bombing, but they're going to have to find a way to see if anything really changes in Syria.''
Turkish Foreign Minister Ismail Cem said his government would ``carefully follow whether Syria is keeping and implementing these promises.''
The IMF and the US Treasury Department are preparing a loan package of $30 billion  or more to stabilize Brazil's economy as Latin American economic officials decry  paltry IMF programs to their countries.
Brazil is suffering from a failing economy  carrying both a large trade and a budget deficit.
The re-election of Brazil's  President by a narrow margin dims hopes for economic reforms.
He will have to  initiate rapid and unpopular steps to save his country's economy.
Influencing the  IMF bailout decision is the slow progress Brazil has shown on reforms that would cut  government expenses over the long term.
Losing $30 billion after Russia's collapse triggered a currency and stock market  collapse in Brazil, following failed economic projects, hyperinflation, large trade  and budget deficits, and dependence on foreign capital.
The IMF, the US, and Brazil  finalized a $30 billion 3-year IMF package to stabilize Brazil's economy, contingent  on reforms.
Clinton lobbied Congress for $18 billion, fearing Brazil's troubles would  affect the US.
President Cardoso narrowly won re-election and pledged austerity  measures to reduce the budget deficit.
Brazil would raise $20 billion next year  through spending cuts and taxes, 30% from states and municipalities.
The real will  probably be devalued.
Investors will watch for reforms and Brazil's backing from wealthy  nations.
By October 1998 Brazil~Rs economy had ground to a halt.
The rampant inflation had been stopped, but deficit spending continued, as did a huge trade deficit.
Following the Russian default on foreign loans in August, foreign capital flew out of Brazil even though interest rates skyrocketed, almost overnight, to 40%.
Prior to the November election the president began seeking monumental help from the International Monetary Fund and enlisting support from the United States and other Group of Seven and western hemisphere leaders.
After his narrow election, he hoped to institute austere measures, drastically cutting spending and improving tax collection efforts.
Many issues and sometimes conflicting strategies for stabilizing the global  economy surfaced at the October IMF and World Bank meeting.
Japan announced a  multi-billion dollar program for Asian nations.
Russia threatened to default on  loans unless it received the billions that were suspended by the fund.
The U.S.  sought to change the role of IMF from disaster relief to before crisis assistance.
Brazilian officials negotiated for an IMF bailout of at least $30 billion.
Though  IMF managing director Camdessus supported the aid package, the Brazilian government,  led by recently reelected President Cardoso, must take serious steps to reduce  the budget deficit.
The United States and other economic powers moved ahead Saturday toward an overhaul of the world's financial system to prevent widening market turmoil from pushing more countries into recession.
U.S. President Bill Clinton telephoned British Prime Minister Tony Blair and French President Jacques Chirac to lobby personally for a set of proposals he put forward Friday.
Central to the U.S. idea is to use the International Monetary Fund to provide more money, faster, to countries threatened with a flight of panicked investors.
Blair and Chirac said they liked the U.S. approach, and other countries as well have had favorable reactions in discussions with administration economic officials, presidential spokesman Joe Lockhart said.
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who helped develop the proposals, sought the endorsements of finance ministers and central bank presidents from the world's seven richest countries.
After hearing Rubin explain the suggestion that new IMF credit lines be established for countries threatened with investor flight, Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters: ``He asked me to support it, and I said I would.''
The Group of Seven meeting, at historic Blair House across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House was expected to be pivotal in trying to develop strategies to halt a 15-month economic crisis, as are sessions beginning Sunday of the 182-nation IMF and World Bank.
The World Bank generally loans money for development projects in poor countries, and the IMF oversees rescue efforts for countries experiencing financial difficulties.
A collapse of currencies and stock markets triggered by a flight of foreign investment money has pushed several Asian nations into steep recession, leveled the Russian economy and is now threatening to strike Brazil and other nations in Latin America.
While other countries had their own ideas about how to address the current market turmoil, Canadian Finance Minister Paul Martin said he believes the crisis' urgency is molding ``a growing consensus about what needs to be done.''
Britain's top finance official, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown, also sounded a note of urgency and suggested that the Bank of England might act as early as next week to cut interest rates.
That would follow the lead of the Federal Reserve, which cut a key U.S. rate by a quarter-point last Tuesday to help ward off recession in the United States.
``As we meet here in Washington, we are conscious that more than a quarter of the world is in recession, that the second largest economy in the world, Japan, is in recession and that the social casualties of the Asian crisis are rising in numbers,'' Brown said.
He told reporters ``strong, decisive and united leadership'' is needed to turn talk into action.
Finance ministers from 24 developing countries appealed for lower interest rates from major industrial nations as a way to take pressure off their foreign debt burdens and ``help restore confidence in international finance markets.''
Still, it was far from certain that all differences will be resolved in coming days.
U.S. officials already have rejected a French proposal to turn the IMF's interim committee into a more permanent crisis-coordination body.
``My guess is we won't find a silver bullet, but we will come out with a process,'' World Bank President James Wolfensohn said.
The U.S. proposal does prescribe new money for the IMF but would require Congress to approve the administration's request of dlrs 18 billion to replenish IMF resources depleted by the need to assemble more than dlrs 100 billion in bailouts for Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia.
That approval is in doubt given significant Republican opposition in the House.
GOP Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, said Clinton's call for quicker release of IMF money is precisely the wrong approach for an agency that has failed so far to halt the crisis from widening.
Other aspects of change being considered are to increase banking supervision in poor countries and provide more loans to help stricken corporations in crisis countries get back on their feet.
The United States also was pushing to get the IMF and other donors behind a rescue for Brazil of perhaps dlrs 30 billion, which could be announced soon after Sunday's presidential elections there.
Rubin and Greenspan pressed the case for Japan to act more forcefully in Saturday's discussions with Miyazawa.
U.S. officials have said troubled Asian countries cannot hope to resume growth unless Japan cleans up its banking troubles and emerges from its own recession.
In a Treasury statement, Rubin welcomed Japan's offer of dlrs 30 billion in new loans to support other Asian nations and said Miyazawa ``explained his government's intention to take all possible steps to promote financial stability.''
The chief executive of the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday there should be a slight improvement in global economic fortunes next year spearheaded by Europe and the United States.
Michel Camdessus, IMF managing director, predicted world growth of around 2.5 percent in 1999, creeping up from the recently revised-down figure for this year of 2 percent.
Camdessus was in the Spanish capital to attend the fourth meeting of the so-called Montevideo Circle, an informal gathering of top ranking politicians and officials who annually hold a behind-closed-door brainstorming session on Latin American issues.
The IMF chief told reporters that Europe and the United States _ ``the two motors of the world economy'' _ were still going strong, despite some slowdown in America and Great Britain.
He said Asia should be able to keep its economic head just above water, avoiding negative growth next year.
Camdessus said the immediate task was to ensure that Latin America weathered the financial storm that began in Thailand 15 months ago before spreading from Asia to precipitate Russia's recent collapse.
``It is a vital obligation to prevent the Latin domino from falling,'' Camdessus said, praising Spain's recent offer to help fund emergency credits to the region under threat from investor flight.
He said he hoped other European countries with business interests in Latin America _ such as Italy, France and Germany _ would follow the Spanish example.
The IMF and the Brazilian government are putting the final touches to an emergency three-year-package that should be ratified within weeks, Camdessus said.
The package has been estimated to total dlrs 30 billion.
``Brazil will not collapse,'' he said, adding that Argentina and Chile were among the keenest to see the IMF reach agreement with their giant neighbor.
Less upbeat about Russia, Camdessus said the Fund was still working toward a financing package, but that the government still lacked a program.
This, he said, would take time, and appealed to governments to provide humanitarian aid in the interim.
The IMF has put together bailout packages totaling over $100 billion during what Camdessus called ``the most uncertain year ever.''
He said the crisis has underlined the need for prevention, and the transformation of the Fund's primary role away from that of ``the firefighter who arrives when the fire is already burning.''
Greater private sector involvement in the prevention and resolution of future economic crisis would help, Camdessus said.
``Now, the private sector tends to run away and leave the work to the governments,'' he said.
Camdessus also said he was aware of recent criticism of excessive IMF secrecy, but he said his own efforts to open up the Fund have been blocked by governments demanding discretion.
Camdessus said that those who viewed the crisis as a critique of the Fund's promotion of world economic liberalization were mistaken.
The man who has headed the IMF for 12 years said that it simply demonstrated the need to carry through liberalization programs properly.
When Josue da Silva stepped up to the consumer society four years ago, the ground underfoot felt solid and endless.
For the first time in years inflation in Brazil was under control, and he and his wife had steady jobs.
They moved out of a cramped room behind a store into an apartment and signed to buy furniture, appliances, a stereo system and even a car.
But these days the foundation beneath da Silva is about the size of his wife's shoes.
Out of work since June, he relies on the $40 a day that Mrs. da Silva earns cleaning houses, and he walks the streets of Sao Paulo desperate for work.
``I assumed commitments that I don't have any way of getting out of,'' da Silva, a former salesman in a building-supply store, said.
``How could I know that in 1998 I'd be stopped dead?
Our lives have turned around more than 800 degrees.''
As Brazilians prepare to vote on Sunday, polls predict that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, highly acclaimed for putting inflation under control, will handily win re-election.
But behind the voters' preferences is a kaleidoscope of doubts and difficulties that Brazilians face as their economy grinds to a virtual halt, and they prepare for the humiliation of ceding some degree of sovereignty for an expected $30 billion in aid from the International Monetary Fund.
The president's closest rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, 52, a union leader from the leftist Workers' Party, opposes the bailout and says the administration lacks an effective industrial and employment policy.
Polls project that he will take 24 percent of the vote.
While presidents and prime ministers, central bankers and economists debate whether low inflation should be a higher priority than economic growth, Brazilians ask the same question on a deeply personal level.
After years of failed economic projects and hyperinflation of more than 200 percent a month just four years ago, Brazilians see the global future as inevitable, although they are not sure where they will land in this modern borderless world of commerce.
``The middle of a storm is not the time to change the ship's captain,'' said Emir Sader, a sociology professor at the University of Sao Paulo and at the State University of Rio de Janeiro, explaining the support for Cardoso.
``It doesn't mean the boat is not sinking, though.''
Last month Cardoso pledged to push Social Security and tax overhauls through Congress and to thin the Civil Service rolls.
His plans mirror those that he made four years ago, which were partly sacrificed because of his crusade for a constitutional amendment that let him seek re-election.
The delay in trimming government spending heightened Brazil's vulnerability to the credit problem that is affecting emerging markets.
The overnight doubling of effective interest rates to more than 40 percent a year last month has stopped the economy in its tracks.
The sudden drain of confidence, vividly illustrated by the steady exit of $30 billion in foreign reserves since Russia's collapse last month, raised doubts about the direction of the economy that Brazilians once thought was doing well.
Nilton Bonder, a rabbi and the writer of ``The Kabbalah of Money,'' said he felt as if Brazil had been seduced by globalization as a first-world nation and had lowered trade barriers without any strategy to modernize industry.
As a result, Bonder noted, some companies in once formidable industries like textiles and toys have slowed production and begun importing from China, ``doing what's best for the company rather than what's best for Brazil.''
He said he could not imagine what Brazil's long-term global role would be.
Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, also questioned conventional economic wisdom, wondering how setting up a country like Brazil for recession, with a steep increase in interest rates and cutbacks in government services, could be considered correct.
``Structural reform is supposed to help the supply side of the economy, not be a precondition for increasing demand,'' Krugman wrote recently.
He likened the solutions for saving Japan, South Korea and other economies in crisis to ``trying to bail out a sinking ship with teaspoons.''
As the election approaches, Brazilians have hunkered down as if for a tidal wave, expecting that the loss of employment, benefits and government services, combined with the industrial slowdown, will hit them all at once after Sunday.
Though nobody has laid out the details of Social Security changes, pensioners like Nilton Tambara, 54, a retired metalworker, fear becoming its targets.
Cardoso had proposed that age rather than the number of years worked should determine eligibility for retirement.
In a famous gaffe this year he used the word ``bums'' to describe workers who wanted to retire.
Though Cardoso apologized for the remark, workers like Tambara felt under attack.
Tambara said he began working at 11 and paid into the Social Security system for 33 of the 41 years that he had worked before starting to collect his pension.
He said Brazilian men, on average, lived to 65.
Although Brazil is the ninth-largest economy in the world, one-quarter of the adults live on one minimum salary of $110 a month.
Seven of 10 Brazilians who will vote next week have had less than a primary-level education.
The distribution of income, among the most skewed in the world, continues in retirement, when 15 percent of those who collect Social Security receive 50 percent of the benefits.
``Is there any way to stay calm in this country?''
Tambara asked.
``The categories that the government talks about _ the rich, the middle class and the poor _ don't exist.
It's just the rich and the miserable.''
nn
As financial leaders from the world's major economies, as well as from many of the most shell-shocked, gathered Saturday for talks, the Clinton administration faced unusual challenges from Europe, Japan and emerging-market nations, which are all arriving with different and even contradictory strategies for stabilizing the global economy.
The clash of approaches, which began to play out as Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin sat down Saturday morning with Japan's finance minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, reflects both the extraordinary tension and the behind-the-scenes power struggles under way as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank open their annual meeting here.
After months of market plunges, currency devaluations, bank failures and bankruptcies around the globe, governments are searching desperately for some kind of coordinated approach that can halt some of the most virulent economic turmoil in half a century.
But it will not be easy, officials concede.
As the meetings opened, Miyazawa announced a $30 billion Japanese program to aid stricken countries throughout Asia.
The program includes government loans, the purchase of bonds issued by Asian nations and guarantees that private bank loans will be repaid.
While Southeast Asian countries immediately hailed the move, the Clinton administration's response was lukewarm.
Rubin had said on Friday, even before the announcement, that Japan's action was ``constructive,'' but that getting its own banks in order and its huge economy restarted was ``by vast multiples more important.''
Miyazawa, a former prime minister who has 40 years of experience dealing with the United States, shot back Saturday that President Clinton's proposals for new strategies on how the IMF could choke off crises before they start ``would not be very convincing unless the United States' commitments to the IMF are lived up to.''
He was referring to Congress' refusal so far to approve $18 billion in new money for the fund, an issue that Senate and House conferees will be debating as the meetings go on here this week.
President Clinton will take the unusual step of participating directly on Monday in a critical meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from 22 nations.
And on Tuesday he will speak to the entire IMF, which represents 182 nations, in his second major speech on the world economy in three weeks.
Clinton set the urgent tone of the meetings on Friday, when he declared that the world was on a ``financial precipice.''
But Clinton, who last spring was resisting advice that he become far more publicly involved in managing the world's financial chaos, insisted that it was not too late to act.
``We don't have to have a worldwide recession if those of us that enjoy growth will take the initiative and move now,'' he said at the White House.
A dramatic initiative to stop the financial contagion may come within days as the IMF, the Treasury Department and Brazil's finance minister, Pedro Malan, put the final touches on a package of $30 billion or more to stabilize the Brazilian economy.
Rubin met with Malan at the Treasury late on Friday, and there was considerable speculation that the package could be announced as soon as voting is completed on Sunday in Brazil's presidential election.
The vote is expected to result in the re-election of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.
Clinton administration officials say they fear that a financial meltdown in Brazil would take the rest of Latin America with it, and bring the crisis to the United States' own borders.
Nonetheless, the cacophony of competing ideas suggests that it will be extraordinarily difficult to get nations facing a varied array of problems _ deep recession and mass unemployment in Southeast Asia, political paralysis in Russia and Indonesia, huge bank failures in Japan, an incipient currency crisis in Brazil, but continued prosperity in Western Europe and the United States _ to settle on a common agenda.
nn 	The United States, for example, is insisting that there be no backing away from a decade-long move toward freer and more open financial markets around the world.
But the Japanese and Southeast Asians are talking about ``capital controls'' that would reimpose government regulation preventing investors from moving billions in short-term investments from one country to another with a few taps on the computer keyboard.
The French, meanwhile, want to increase the power of the committee that oversees the IMF, while Russia is threatening to default on its loans unless it is quickly given billions that the fund suspended when President Boris Yeltsin fired his team of economic reformers and violated the terms of his accord for Western aid.
A senior IMF official said last month that Russia's threats are ``a form of blackmail, but the enormous turbulence touched off by the Russian financial debacle in September gives real teeth to Russia's threats.
Clinton and Rubin are hoping to craft their own strategies to calm the financial markets and keep the worst effects of the recession from hitting U.S. shores, where exports and corporate profits are already badly affected.
The most immediate of those strategies would allow the IMF to launch pre-emptive strikes to bolster the finances of fundamentally healthy economies where the global economic contagion seems likely to hit next.
Currently the fund intervenes with billions in emergency aid only after disaster strikes and investors are fleeing.
But by that time, the country's currency is already under heavy attack, and putting together a bailout can cost far more and often involves austerity measures _ from budget cuts to sky-high interest rates _ that lead to soaring unemployment and political backlash.
The administration's proposal will first be debated by the Group of Seven industrial nations and then, if it gathers much support, by a larger meeting of 22 nations, including most of the major emerging markets.
But a senior Japanese official noted Saturday that the president's plan ``seems aimed mostly at Latin America'' and probably would ``not meet a lot of enthusiasm in Europe and Asia.''
Meanwhile the Europeans are debating how to respond to calls from Washington for a lowering of interest rates, a step Japan and the United States have already taken _ though with the most modest of reductions.
Gordon Brown, Britain's finance minister, hinted late in the week before last that London may follow suit.
But Germany, traditionally far more concerned about inflation, has declined to follow suit.
The German government is playing an unusually small role here as its incoming chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder, prepares to assemble an economic team.
The Southeast Asian nations _ which only five years ago were the subject of a much-discussed World Bank study called ``The East Asian Miracle'' _ arrived here in shock and confusion about what to do next.
The first nation to be hit by trouble, Thailand, is mired in difficulties, but looks good in comparison with most of the region's other nations.
Malaysia is suffering economic turmoil, and Indonesia's economy is plunging so deeply into recession that the IMF is backing away from many of its demands on its government.
``In my country,'' said one Indonesian during a question-and-answer period at the opening session of the meetings here, ``IMF means I'm Finished.''
Brazilian voters appeared to re-elect President Fernando Henrique Cardoso in the first round of balloting Sunday, thus maintaining the leadership of a country struggling against economic crisis.
In preliminary returns, Cardoso appeared to have defeated Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the three-time presidential candidate of the leftist Workers Party, with 56 percent of the vote, a far stronger showing than polls initially predicted.
Cabinet members gathering at the presidential palace in Brasilia Sunday night called the vote a mandate for reform, which the president is under national and international pressure to carry out.
With $30 billion having drained from federal reserves since Russia's economic collapse in late August, and the Sao Paulo stock market down more than 40 percent this year, the Brazilian government has been somewhat paralyzed by the approach of elections.
It has been negotiating a bailout with the International Monetary Fund, but has been unable to show progress on structural reforms that would cut government expenses over the long term.
But the waiting is probably not over yet.
The size of his victory strengthens Cardoso's hand for the politically sensitive social security, civil service and tax overhauls ahead.
But, political analysts said, Congress will probably not convene to consider painful economic reforms before important gubernatorial runoffs on Oct. 25.
With policy-makers at the meetings of the Group of Seven top industrialized nations and the International Monetary Fund in Washington seeking permanent solutions to ward off the volatility that is threatening Brazil after devastating Asia and Russia, Cardoso is expected to start taking steps to put Brazil's accounts in order.
Antonio Carlos Alkimin, a political science professor at Catholic University and chief of population studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, said he did not expect that Cardoso could make progress toward restructuring the government before Oct. 25, because these measures would require legislative approval.
``What he can do is take measures on the administrative level to cut costs, or to play with controls on currency,'' Alkimin said.
But Gregg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, said that financial markets were not expecting concrete reforms from Brazil in the next few weeks.
``The next thing everybody's going to be watching is whether there is an IMF and World Bank package to support Brazil and whether the Brazilians are starting to take actions to work on the budget deficit,'' he said.
``If those two things look like they're moving in the right direction, it will begin to calm financial markets.''
Sunday's balloting was somewhat confused, with about half the country voting on small shoebox-sized computers that elderly voters had trouble mastering.
Though electioneering was required to end before polls opened, most candidates appeared to ignore the prohibition.
At Rocinha, in Rio de Janeiro, believed to be the largest slum in South America with about 300,000 residents, palm-sized photos of candidates fluttered like autumn leaves through the air and carpeted the streets.
People waited more than an hour to cast their votes, with many supporting Cardoso for re-election.
Luiz Claudio Silveira, a 34-year-old horse trainer, said he planned to vote for Cardoso, largely because he ended inflation.
``If you go to the supermarket, you can buy whatever you need now,'' he said.
``Four years is not enough to change a country as big as ours.
I really believe in him.''
Rute Vicente Oliveira, a 48-year-old manicurist, also planned to vote for Cardoso.
She said that for most of her life, her family lived in a lean-to, too poor to build a proper home.
It was her father's dream, she said, and he died before it was realized.
``Now, the house is almost done, it's almost completely in order,'' she said.
Gilberto Manuel da Silva, 40, who owns an ice cream parlor, said that he expected the economic adjustments that Cardoso announced would hurt him personally, but he was prepared to sacrifice in order to stabilize Brazil's economy.
``I'm thinking more about the situation of the country,'' da Silva said.
``With a stable money, our situation will get better.''
Brazilian voters gave President Fernando Henrique Cardoso a comfortable lead in the first round of balloting Sunday, apparently maintaining the leadership of a country struggling against economic crisis.
With 22 percent of the vote counted, Cardoso appeared to have won 51 percent of the vote, compared with 34 percent for his main rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the three-time presidential candidate of the leftist Workers Party.
If he still has a majority when returns are complete, Cardoso will be declared re-elected without facing a runoff.
Exit polls indicated that he might win as much as 56 percent.
Cabinet members gathering at the presidential palace in Brasilia Sunday night called the vote a mandate for the economic measures that the president is under national and international pressure to carry out.
With $30 billion having drained from federal reserves since Russia's economic collapse in late August, and with the Sao Paulo stock market down more than 40 percent this year, the Brazilian government has been close to paralyzed by the approach of the election.
It has been negotiating a bailout with the International Monetary Fund but has been unable to show progress on structural changes that would cut government expenses over the long term.
The waiting is probably not over yet, though.
The size of his victory strengthens Cardoso's hand for the politically sensitive social security, civil service and tax overhauls ahead.
But political analysts said Congress would probably not convene to consider the painful economic measures before important gubernatorial runoffs on Oct. 25 because the legislators will be busy campaigning for their parties' gubernatorial candidates.
With policy-makers at meetings of the Group of Seven industrial nations and the International Monetary Fund in Washington seeking permanent solutions to ward off the volatility that is threatening Brazil after devastating Asia and Russia, Cardoso is under considerable pressure to put Brazil's accounts in order.
But Gregg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities in New York, said the international financial markets were not necessarily expecting major changes from Brazil in the next few weeks.
``The next thing everybody's going to be watching is whether there is an IMF and World Bank package to support Brazil, and whether the Brazilians are starting to take actions to work on the budget deficit,'' he said.
``If those two things look like they're moving in the right direction, it will begin to calm financial markets.''
Antonio Carlos Alkimin, a political science professor at Catholic University in Rio de Janeiro and chief of population studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, said he did not expect that Cardoso could make progress toward restructuring the government before Oct. 25, because such measures would require legislative approval.
``What he can do is take measures on the administrative level to cut costs or to play with controls on currency,'' Alkimin said.
Sunday's balloting was somewhat confused, with about half of the country voting on small shoebox-sized computers that elderly voters had trouble mastering.
Though electioneering was required to end before polls opened Sunday, most candidates appeared to ignore the prohibition.
At Rocinha, in Rio de Janeiro, believed to be the largest slum in South America with about 300,000 residents, palm-size photos of candidates fluttered like autumn leaves through the air and carpeted the streets.
People waited more than an hour to cast their votes, with many supporting Cardoso.
Luiz Claudio Silveira, 34, a horse trainer who voted in Rocinha, said he planned to vote for Cardoso, largely because the president had ended inflation.
``If you go to the supermarket, you can buy whatever you need now,'' Silveira said.
``Four years is not enough to change a country as big as ours.
I really believe in him.''
Rute Vicente Oliveira, 48, a manicurist, also planned to vote for Cardoso.
For most of her life, she said, her family lived in a lean-to, too poor to build a proper home.
Her father dreamed of giving his family solid, sturdy shelter, Ms. Oliveira said, but he died before concrete blocks replaced the family's plywood slats.
``Now the house is almost done,'' she said.
``It's almost completely in order.''
Many voters appeared to be unaware of the fiscal adjustments ahead, though the president announced less than two weeks before the election that government belt-tightening measures would be inevitable.
Of the 106 million Brazilians eligible to vote Sunday, nearly 70 percent have less than an elementary school education, and 35 percent are barely literate.
Gilberto Manuel da Silva, 40, who owns an ice cream parlor, said that he expected the economic adjustments to hurt him personally but that he was prepared to sacrifice to stabilize Brazil's economy.
The president said he would cut government costs, crack down on tax evaders and, if necessary, raise taxes to increase revenues.
``I'm thinking more about the situation of the country than of myself,'' da Silva said.
``With a stable money, our situation will get better.''
Through the anxious weeks leading up to the national elections here on Sunday, as some $30 billion fled Brazil despite the doubling of domestic interest rates, international financial officials watched for the government to tackle cost-cutting reforms as soon as voting ended.
But Monday, as official returns indicated President Fernando Henrique Cardoso was barely squeaking through to re-election and governors allied to him were locked in runoffs later this month, the road to reform is looming longer and more complex.
Polling groups and television stations that reported an overwhelming victory for Cardoso came under severe criticism.
Though exit polls reported Cardoso taking some 56 percent of the vote, official tallies Monday afternoon gave him 51 percent, with 56 percent of the votes counted.
His nearest rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, of the leftist Workers Party, took 34 percent, substantially higher than the 24 percent polls predicted he would take.
Cardoso's margin was just 1.2 percent higher than needed to avoid a second round of balloting.
Ciro Gomes, an up-and-coming former finance minister from the northeastern state of Ceara, took 11 percent, while Eneas Carneiro, a nationalist who called for Brazil to build an atom bomb, gained 2.2 percent of the vote.
Though voting in Brazil is largely obligatory, the share of abstentions and invalid votes reached 30 percent.
Allies of the president did poorly in many of Brazil's most populous and politically influential states, weakening Cardoso's hand going into negotiations for reform.
Though Brazil has not yet submitted a formal request, Brazilian officials have been in Washington negotiating some form of assistance from the International Monetary Fund that will likely total $30 billion or more.
The country's failure to cut spending in two key areas _ social security and civil service _ and to simplify and improve tax collection, makes Brazil heavily dependent on foreign capital at a time when investors generally are fleeing emerging markets.
Brazil's budget deficit is exceeding 7 percent of Gross National Product, and its current account deficit, which includes its balance of trade as well as debt service and other payments, constitutes more than 4 percent of GNP.
Government cutbacks of $5 billion, and the doubling of interbank loan rates to almost 50 percent, have slowed but not stopped the flight of capital.
As of 6 p.m. Monday, some $300 million had left foreign reserve coffers, and the Sao Paulo stock market was down 4.47 percent.
Investors appear to be watching for lasting reforms from the government and for signs that wealthy nations will back Brazil.
But the political arena remained strangely silent Monday, almost suspended.
By Monday afternoon, Cardoso still had not claimed victory, and da Silva had not conceded defeat.
Sergio Amaral, the president's spokesman, said Cardoso would wait until official results were completely tallied before speaking.
Newspapers in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo headlined exit polls showing the president doing vastly better than official tallies bore out, and in state races, polling institutes by and large underplayed the strength of leftist candidates, bringing them under sharp attack.
``The nation has watched the most shameful political and electoral manipulation heard of in recent history,'' said a statement from the coalition of parties that da Silva represented.
It accused the polling institutes, media, and electoral officials of conspiring ``to influence public opinion and alter the electoral will.''
Mauro Francisco Paulino, director of opinion polls for Datafolha, one of the main polling services, denied any intentional manipulation of the results.
He predicted the final results would support the exit polls.
While it is illegal to announce exit poll results while voting is still going on, it is ``traditional'' in Brazil, he said.
Brazil's Congress, out campaigning for gubernatorial candidates, will likely not convene to consider reforms before the end of the month, however dire the international situation.
Cardoso appears to be planning for a low profile in the coming weeks, with a brief vacation and a trip to Portugal coming up.
He is not expected to openly campaign for any candidates.
Maria Dalvo Kinzo, a political scientist at the University of Sao Paulo, said the only factor that might make pushing reforms easier for the president this time is the urgency of the crisis.
``There's a consciousness that the crisis is very serious,'' Ms. Kinzo said.
But she warned that with the strong showings of leftist candidates in important state races, and with half the deputies newcomers to Congress, the president's governing coalition was appearing more fragmented.
``Now, he's going to have to really patch together support,'' she said.
Jose Augusto Guilhermo de Albuquerque, coordinator of the research center on international relations at the University of Sao Paulo, agreed.
``His coalition will be larger and less ideologically committed than the current one,'' Albuquerque said.
Party discipline, customarily half-hearted, will be even weaker in the new panorama, he added.
Increasingly angry at what they consider the lenient treatment that Russia received in its $4.5 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund, Latin American officials and economists warned Monday that the programs being offered to protect their own countries were too paltry.
Guillermo Ortiz, Mexico's central bank governor and former finance minister, said that faced with the mounting financial pressures on Latin America and the rest of the developing world, the $90 billion the United States wants to give the monetary fund in extra lending money would be adequate ``if things go well, but not enough for a bad scenario.''
By some calculations, he said, the developing world might need $200 billion in new loans by 1999.
Ortiz's warnings came at a seminar here during this year's annual meeting of the World Bank and the IMF.
When Russia defaulted in August on its huge foreign debts and the United States and other major powers allowed it to happen, he said, South America's ability to withstand the global financial crisis was seriously undermined.
``Until then we were doing fine,'' he said.
``But everything changed after Russia.''
What clearly angered Ortiz and other officials at the seminar was the strong political and financial backing that the United States and other major powers gave Russia right up to the moment it defaulted.
``Russia was treated like a member of the Group of Seven,'' Ortiz said, referring to the world's most powerful nations, at whose behest the monetary fund lent Russia $17 billion.
``It was unthinkable it could fail,'' he said.
He added that while Mexico could survive ``a period of market instability, it must be temporary or the situation will be out of control.''
Ortiz said Russia's default made investors around the world wary of all emerging market countries, including those in Latin America.
Finance Minister Eduardo Aninat of Chile said: ``It's the packaging effect.
Analysts don't differentiate between regions, countries or sectors anymore.''
``Latin America is being buffeted by external shocks this time, it is not the source of the shocks,'' said E. Gerald Corrigan of Goldman Sachs and a former president of the New York Federal Reserve, alluding to the Mexican peso's collapse in 1995 and the financial turmoil that it provoked.
All ministers and officials speaking at the seminar, entitled ``Latin America: a steady ship in troubled waters?''
promised that their countries would continue the free-market-oriented economic reforms they have introduced in recent years, selling off state-owned companies and encouraging private business.
But they also insisted that the United States, other important nations and institutions like the World Bank and the IMF must be ready to help.
The Brazilian finance minister, Pedro Malan, who was greeted with cheers when he announced the apparent re-election of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, pledged the government to impose painful new austerity measures to reduce the budget deficit.
``We interpret the election as a mandate to do what we said we would do,'' he added.
He recalled that early in September the finance ministers and central bank governors of nine Latin American countries had met with World Bank and IMF officials in Washington and vowed ``to deepen our reform efforts.''
In Brazil, consequently, there would be no changes in the government's exchange rate policy and no resort to controls on outflows of money even though the country has seen about $30 billion of its reserves drain away since July.
But he said nothing about the big financial aid package he is rumored to be negotiating with Washington, the World Bank and the IMF and which some officials now say could total as much as $60 billion.
He did evoke the possibility of a serious breakdown in Latin America's largest economy _ which is bigger than those of South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand combined _ by saying the world now has ``an historic opportunity to show how by acting together we could have a successful experience at crisis prevention.''
So far, Latin American economies have weathered the international crisis relatively well.
The IMF currently expects them to grow at a rate of 2.8 percent this year and 2.7 percent next year, down only 0.6 percent and 1.6 percent respectively on what it predicted last May.
But international confidence in the region's currencies is vulnerable to the balance-of-payments deficits that all major Latin American countries are running.
They currently range from 3.6 percent and 4.4 percent of total output respectively for Brazil and Argentina, to 7 percent in the case of Chile.
&QL;
The New York Times said in editorial for Wednesday, Oct. 7: 	Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has little time to savor his apparent first-round re-election victory Sunday.
He must take rapid and unpopular steps to save the economy.
Brazilians voted for Cardoso because they trusted his economic management more than that of his main rival, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.
da Silva, who leads the Workers Party, campaigned for a more closed economy.
His prescriptions struck many Brazilians as well-meaning but unrealistic.
But Cardoso avoided a runoff by the smallest of margins, and his allies failed to win in many important states.
The new Congress, which will take office in February, is likely to be less cooperative than the current one.
Brazil has made great economic strides under policies initiated by Cardoso, first as finance minister and then as president.
Inflation, a perennial problem, has fallen from 3,000 percent a year to around zero.
As the economy has grown, many Brazilians have prospered.
Much of that success came from a policy of tying the Brazilian currency, the real, to the dollar, and allowing it to fall about 7 percent a year.
Unfortunately, it appears that the depreciation rate was not enough to keep up with economic realities.
Brazil has been running a large trade deficit as well as a big budget deficit.
Now, with markets fearful, its debts have become crucial.
More than $300 million a day is draining out of the country despite interest rates of 40 percent, which have stopped economic growth.
Cardoso and the Congress must take fiscal discipline seriously.
In May the Congress rejected his social security and civil service reforms.
Then he abandoned restraints during his election campaign, and spending soared.
Now Congress must simplify taxes and improve income tax collection rates _ especially crucial because these taxes will come from the better-off in a country with one of the world's most unequal income distributions.
Brazil must also control spending, especially on pensions for the bloated public sector.
Putting Brazil's finances in order will be painful, but not as painful as economic collapse.
The International Monetary Fund should calm investors by coming up with a bailout to stem the hemorrhage of Brazil's reserves.
But it must be contingent on Brazil's own reforms.
It is unlikely, however, that the international community can find enough money to support the overvalued real forever.
The real will probably eventually have to be devalued, but it is understandable that Brazilians, who remember hyperinflation, fear an immediate and perhaps uncontrolled devaluation.
The perception now is that Latin America could go the way of Asia if Brazil sinks, and such perceptions can create their own problems.
There are good reasons for the world to help Brazil, but Brazil must also deal with its own problems.
As a three-man economic team headed for Washington, and President Fernando Henrique Cardoso flew off to Portugal, Brazilian government officials put the finishing touches Friday on an ambitious package to raise $20 billion in revenues through spending cuts and tax increases next year.
But public announcement of those measures, eagerly awaited by investors and markets throughout Latin America, appear set for delay once again.
Details of Brazil's plans to reduce its high deficits, initially expected to be announced just after Cardoso's Oct. 5 re-election, and then on Oct. 20, now will likely not be disclosed before the second round of gubernatorial elections Oct. 25, legislators said.
Since the economic collapse of Russia in August, investors and economists have sharpened their focus on Brazil.
While President Clinton lobbied Congress for $18 billion to restock the International Monetary Fund this week, with an eye toward assisting Brazil, the team that returned here from the IMF's annual meeting in Washington earlier this month scoured government accounts for politically feasible sources of savings and reform.
Though the country has sped up various receipts the government is getting for privatizing state entities like the phone system to replenish foreign reserves, it is losing more than $400 million a day from central bank coffers.
Foreign reserves, which had stood at $70 billion, are down to $46 billion, with capital flight surpassing $30 billion despite the government's doubling of interest rates to more than 40 percent.
Three senior government officials, Pedro Parente and Amaury Bier of the Finance Ministry and Altamir Lopes of the central bank, are scheduled to meet this weekend with IMF officials in Washington to discuss the government's blueprint for cutbacks and reforms.
Eager to avoid replaying the contentious and unpopular IMF accords of the 1980s, Brazilian officials are trying to disassociate the hardship to come from the IMF.
The steps to cut the budget deficit are being portrayed as measures to rehabilitate the economic systems.
In that way, the administration here hopes to avoid the humiliation of appearing to bend economic policy to IMF orders once again.
The IMF goal corresponds to a 2.5 percent to 3 percent surplus in Brazil's primary budget account, which covers government expenses but excludes interest payments on debt.
``It will be drastic, but we have to deliver that,'' said Demosthenes Madureiro do Pinho, the director of international relations at the Brazilian central bank.
Higher interest rates on the national debt are bringing the cost of the debt to 3.5 percent of Brazil's economy, Pinho said, adding that spending reforms are key to restoring confidence and, ultimately, lowering interest rates.
In August, before Russia's economic collapse triggered a swift and sizable flight of capital from Brazil, the government had presented a budget for next year with a primary account surplus of 0.92 percent, or $6 billion.
A senior official at the Planning Ministry, Martus Tavares, says there is little room for the federal government to reduce its budget by much more.
So the government will depend on tax increases and savings by states and municipalities to raise the remaining $14 billion.
The federal government will likely create new taxes, increase existing ones and consolidate others to raise more revenues, though economists warn that an expected deepening of the recession in Brazil bodes ill for tax revenues.
Michel Temer, president of the lower house of Parliament, said in an interview here that Congress would begin debate on social security reform Nov. 4, and would begin what promises to be a stormy debate on political reform soon after.
The measures being discussed include a 0.1 percent increase on a special government tax on every check written, to 0.3 percent.
Congress passed the tax in 1996 as a one-year effort to improve the deteriorating public health system, but the revenue has been used to offset excess spending in other areas.
Last year, the tax brought in $7 billion.
With a 0.1 percent increase, it will likely bring in another $3 billion, and it would be made permanent.
The three-year plan of adjustments also relies on states and municipalities to produce about 30 percent of the projected savings through legally-mandated spending limits, though states have had a spotty record in controlling outlays.
While Cardoso clearly interpreted his victory this month as a mandate for swift, if painful, reforms, it is by no means clear that state governors are hearing the same message from voters.
In gubernatorial races in key Brazilian states, Brazilians are favoring candidates that are not particularly known for austerity.
As the 1998 mid-term elections approached, it seemed that Republicans might gain  a filibuster-proof 60 seat majority in the senate.
Four Democratic incumbents  seemed to be in real danger while two Republicans seemed to have the edge in  contests to fill vacancies previously held by Democrats.
A strong bid by the  Democratic challenger to the Republican incumbent in New York did not seem enough  to avoid strong Republican gains.
The Monica Lewinsky scandal and the impeachment  inquiry in the house also seemed to bode ill for the Democrats and Democratic  house candidates struggled with the question whether to support or oppose  impeachment.
Results of the 1998 U.S. Mid-Term Congressional elections will be far-reaching.
Republicans have a long shot at gaining a filibuster-proof 60-seat majority in  the Senate.
Noted battles for Senator include D'Amato vs. Schumer in New York,  and Moseley-Braun vs. Fitzgerald in Illinois.
Republicans are often characterized  as "conservatives" while Democrats are characterized as "liberals."
Political  hybrids resist easy characterization as exemplified in D'Amato vs. Schumer.
As  Election Day nears, the House Judiciary Committee is considering impeaching  President Clinton for alleged perjury and obstruction of justice in connection  with the Lewinsky affair.
The outcome of the elections is likely to influence  deliberations about impeaching Clinton.
With many Democrat seats in jeopardy, Republicans expect modest to high gains  in both the House and Senate 1998 races.
Several independent analysts also  believe that Republicans will gain many of the tightly contested seats.
In  Illinois Republican Peter Fitzgerald holds a strong lead over the incumbent  Democrat Senator Carol Mosely-Braun.
Perhaps less typical is New York State,  where Democratic challenger Schumer has battled to a statistical tie with  incumbent Republican Senator D'Amato.
As campaign tactics, both skewed their  political ideology toward the center, with each accusing the other of extremism.
The effect of President Clinton's impeachment hearings on these elections is  unknown.
The House voted to open a formal impeachment inquiry into the Clinton/Lewinsky  affair Thursday, but the outcome of the process is unpredictable and is somewhat  dependent on the results of the November elections.
Several Democratic incumbents  in the Senate, among them Barbara Boxer and Carol Mosely-Braun, and at least one  Senate Republican, Alfonso D'Amato, are in tight races.
If the Republicans take  control of the Senate by a large margin, some will view it as a mandate to move  toward impeachment.
Alternatively, modest Republican gains in Congress could be  a signal that the citizenry has rejected impeachment.
In 1992, in a good year for Democrats, Barbara Boxer won her seat in the U.S. Senate with 48 percent of the vote.
In the six years since, she has been a reliably outspoken liberal from a state that is less so, and has never managed to lift her job approval ratings above 50 percent.
Now, in what is shaping up as a bad year for Democrats, Ms. Boxer is struggling to hold her own against a comparative neophyte, the Republican state treasurer, Matt Fong.
Their contest has become one of a handful of closely watched races that will determine whether the Republicans can win a filibuster-proof 60-seat majority that could shape the congressional landscape for years.
As the House of Representatives prepares to debate whether to open a formal impeachment inquiry into President Clinton's conduct in the Monica Lewinsky matter, much attention has focused on the plight of House Democrats in swing districts.
But from California to Wisconsin, from Illinois to Nevada, from Kentucky to South Carolina, Senate seats now held by Democrats are also in jeopardy, raising the possibility of the biggest Republican majority in the Senate since the administration of Warren G. Harding in 1921-23, when the party held 59 seats in a 96-member body.
``It's just that the Republicans have more opportunities, and better opportunities,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, editor of a respected independent political newsletter in Washington.
``The Democrats are definitely still on the defensive, and it shows.''
Although Clinton's own job approval ratings jumped to near his highest ever after the release of his videotaped grand jury testimony last month, that support has generally not carried over to Democratic incumbents around the country, some of whom, like Boxer and Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois, were vulnerable long before Clinton's current troubles ever surfaced.
In the Senate alone, Democrats have lost 11 seats since Clinton's 1992 victory, and Republicans hold a 55-45 majority.
``Publicly, the congressional Democrats defend the president a bit,'' said Ross Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University and a leading expert on the Senate.
``But privately, they're angry and worried and scared.
``It's a case of the ship leaving the sinking rats.''
One senior Democratic senator, now in his fourth term, summed up the situation this way, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
``When I came here, there were 64 Democratic senators,'' the senator said.
``Now we'll be lucky to get 42.''
With its magisterial pace, rarefied folkways and six-year election cycles, the Senate has always been less subject to the vicissitudes of voter sentiment than the House, whose entire membership faces re-election every two years.
But when changes in the Senate do occur, experience has shown that they can be big changes.
In years like 1980, for example, when the Republicans took a majority as Ronald Reagan was elected president, or 1986, when the party lost control of the Senate (and lost more seats there than it did in the House), or 1994, when the Democrats lost control of both houses after the failure of Clinton's proposed health care overhaul, ``all the close races went one way,'' Rothenberg said.
If Republicans win all the close Senate races where they are now thought to be in striking distance, experts say they could well make the net gain of five seats needed to reach 60, the number of votes needed to cut off floor debate and block a Democratic filibuster.
``I think there's about a 30 percent chance of that happening,'' said Jennifer E. Duffy, the Senate editor of the Cook Political Report, another highly regarded nonpartisan newsletter in Washington.
``A gain of three seats is the worst they'll do.''
Of the 34 Senate seats up this year, 10 are considered safely Republican and 9 safely Democratic.
The Ohio seat being vacated by John Glenn, a Democrat who is retiring, is considered a likely bet for Gov. George Voinovich, a Republican, while the Republican seat in Indiana being surrendered by Dan Coats is likely to be won by former Gov. Evan Bayh, a Democrat seeking to reclaim the office once held by his father, Birch.
That means Republicans would have to hold onto all 5 of the remaining seats the party now holds, from New York, North Carolina, Missouri, Colorado and Georgia, and pick up 6 of the remaining 8 Democratic-held seats to achieve the net gain of 5 seats needed to reach 60.
Their best bets are Illinois, California, Kentucky, Nevada, Wisconsin, Washington state and South Carolina.
Democratic senators are in trouble for a range of reasons, from changing voter demographics, which have left incumbents like Harry Reid of Nevada and Ernest Hollings of South Carolina facing electorates decidedly more Republican than the ones that chose them to begin with, to the failure of some senators, like Boxer and Moseley-Braun, to solidify their original base of support.
Moseley-Braun, like Boxer a member of the 1992 ``Year of the Woman'' class and the first black woman ever elected to the Senate, is running 10 points behind her Republican challenger, state Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, in the latest polls, and national Democratic officials seem to have all but conceded the seat.
In Washington state, another member of the 1992 class, Patty Murray, holds only a slight lead over her Republican challenger, Rep. Linda Smith.
nn 	In Wisconsin, Russell Feingold, the Democratic co-sponsor of the campaign finance reform bill that bears his name, is testing that proposition in his own race, eschewing ``soft-money'' contributions from his national party.
He recently let his opponent, Rep. Mark Neumann, broadcast a heavy dose of unanswered television commercials.
Ms. Duffy of the Cook Report moved that race into the toss-up category last week.
The Kentucky seat being vacated by Sen. Wendell Ford, a Democrat, appears to be a tossup between Representative Scotty Baesler, a Democrat, and Jim Bunning, a Republican, with the most recent independent poll showing a virtual dead heat.
Boxer's situation is fairly typical, with some problems of her own making and others exacerbated by Clinton, to whom she is related by marriage.
Her daughter, Nicole, is married to Tony Rodham, Hillary Rodham Clinton's brother, and the senator took some heat for her initially low-key comments about the Lewinsky scandal, especially given her past outspoken opposition to Sen. Bob Packwood and Judge Clarence Thomas over allegations of sexual harassment against them.
After Clinton's Aug. 17 admission of an ``inappropriate'' relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, Ms. Boxer eventually condemned his behavior in strong terms on the Senate floor, but not until well after her California colleague, Dianne Feinstein, had issued her own stinging rebuke of Clinton.
But Fong, who was elected state treasurer just four years ago and whose inexperience on the stump showed in his first debate with Boxer this summer, is hardly a powerhouse candidate.
Boxer has held roughly a 2-to-1 fund-raising advantage over him throughout the year, and he barely eked out a victory in the Republican primary in June against Darrel Issa, a millionaire businessman.
``If Barbara Boxer were all that strong politically, she'd be way ahead of Matt Fong,'' Rothenberg said.
``She would have put him away long ago.''
Instead, recent polls have shown the candidates in either a dead heat, or Fong slightly ahead among likely voters, though a Democratic operative not affiliated with either campaign said that recent private Democratic polls had shown Ms. Boxer opening a single-digit lead.
Fong began his television advertising campaign last week, with ads in English, Cantonese, Mandarin and Spanish touting his support for education and aimed at making inroads among minority voters whom Republicans often overlook, though only the English-language version stresses the necessity for children to ``read, write and speak English so they are prepared to get a job.''
By contrast, Boxer has been on the air for about three weeks, most recently with a 30-second commercial, narrated by actor Martin Sheen, that denounces Fong as ``the gun lobby's favorite candidate'' and touts her support for new bans on assault weapons and cheap handguns.
Unlike Feinstein, Boxer has largely failed to move beyond her liberal base and establish a strong anti-crime reputation.
In that regard, Boxer's first ad was perhaps even more revealing.
Broadcast in her home turf of San Francisco and featuring footage from old family home movies, it was a soft-edged hymn to her support for children, in the form of after-school programs to keep them ``out of gangs, and criminal background checks for child-care workers.''
``It's all about her losing a lot of her base from '92 and having to get it back,'' said Ms. Duffy of the Cook Report.
``This was for the soccer moms she should already have.''
The national Republican Senatorial Committee is closely watching California as a promising contest, along with Nevada, Wisconsin and a handful of others, said a spokesman for the committee, Mike Russell.
He declined to speculate about how much the party might spend to help Fong make his case, but acknowledged that ``it's certainly a race where those kinds of resources could make a difference.''
``In Boxer, you have a candidate who is stuck at 45 percent or below, and has no real room to grow, since most people in the state already know her and have fixed opinions of her,'' Russell said.
``Matt is not only a sharp candidate, but as an Asian-American can chew into her base.''
Even if the Republicans could win control of 60 seats, that would be far from the most lopsided margin in Senate history.
After the election of 1936, at the height of the New Deal, the Democrats held 75 seats, to 17 for the Republicans and the remaining split among minor parties.
And after Lyndon B. Johnson's 1964 landslide, the Democrats had 68 seats to 32 for the Republicans.
Moreover, Baker of Rutgers noted, maverick Republicans like Sens. Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine, James Jeffords of Vermont and John Chafee of Rhode Island so regularly break ranks that even 60 Republican seats would not be enough to guarantee an ironclad defense against a Democratic filibuster.
``It's such an individualistic institution,'' he said.
``It's such a place of personalities and individuals, and there's a real aversion on the part of senators to appear to be part of a herd, or part of an unshakable bloc of votes.''
Anyone following the U.S. Senate race in New York this year could be forgiven for concluding that this is one of the epic ideological battles of the 1990s: the right-wing extremist, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, versus the ultraliberal Brooklyn congressman, Charles Schumer.
On one side is D'Amato, who, as Schumer said again Sunday, voted to cut Medicare, opposed abortion rights and battled environmentalists.
On the other is Schumer, who, as D'Amato likes to say, voted against crime bills, opposed welfare restrictions and supported a series of tax increases.
But the truth behind these ideological caricatures is considerably more complex, despite the best efforts of Schumer and D'Amato to confuse it.
These two candidates for Senate are, in fact, political hybrids, masters of the fluid school of politics and ideology that has emerged in U.S. elections in the 1990s, and very much in the tradition of such successful politicians as Bill Clinton, Rudolph Giuliani and George Pataki.
Like Clinton, who campaigned in the New Hampshire Democratic primary in 1992 on a promise to slash welfare, and Pataki, who ran for New York governor in 1994 by embracing the environmental movement, D'Amato and Schumer have defied just enough of their parties' orthodoxy to resist easy characterization.
Their legislative histories are certainly littered with votes that permit their opponents to paint them as extreme, like Schumer's voting in the state Assembly to weaken drug laws, or D'Amato's championing of much of House Speaker Newt Gingrich's Contract With America.
But like most New Yorkers _ or more specifically, like most people who will vote on Nov. 3 _ the three-term Republican senator and his Democratic challenger are closer to the center than to either extreme.
``I do not think they are as different as they say,'' said the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader who ran for the Democratic nomination to challenge D'Amato in 1992.
``Chuck has always been right of center in the Democratic Party, and D'Amato has always been, well, whatever works for him on that given day.
They are both rewriting as they go.''
The flood of conflicting vote citations and ideological name-calling that have filled the state's airwaves notwithstanding, these first three weeks of the general election campaign have been less about ideology and more about tactics.
With a nod to the political reality of the moderate cast of New York's electorate, D'Amato and Schumer are each trying to accomplish the same thing, if from different corners of the ring: to cover the tracks of their own political evolution while portraying their opponent as extreme.
This maneuvering began on the first day of the general election campaign as D'Amato attacked Schumer as liberal while the representative assailed D'Amato as soft on crime.
And it has continued every day since then, testimony to one of the most enduring facts of this contest: Whatever their differences on issues, as political tacticians, Schumer and D'Amato have similar reflexes.
This is nothing new for D'Amato.
He has historically prepared for each election with a march on the political center, and then campaigned by portraying his opponents, notably Robert Abrams, the state attorney general, in 1992, as liberal vestiges.
This formula, combined with a record of tending to the more parochial needs of the state and its voters, largely accounts for D'Amato's repeated success at winning re-election in what is, by registration, a strongly Democratic state.
What is different this time is that D'Amato has encountered in Schumer a challenger who is trying to do to the senator what the senator typically does to his opponent.
The representative has parried each ideological assault by D'Amato by asserting that it is the senator who is the ideological extremist, and then by blurring his own ideological evolution with a recitation of what was his own march on the political center as he prepared in Congress for this race.
It seems unlikely that Schumer will ever convince voters that he is, for example, tougher on crime than D'Amato, or that D'Amato is a foot soldier for Gingrich's Republican revolution.
But at the very least, by echoing D'Amato's tactics, Schumer may succeed in neutralizing a weapon that D'Amato has used against previous opponents to devastating effect.
nn 	D'Amato certainly has a basis for saying that Schumer is to the left of most of the U.S. electorate.
Schumer voted against the 1996 bill that restricted welfare benefits.
He opposed the balanced-budget amendment.
He has supported a series of tax increases over the years.
He voted for federal legislation that would ban discrimination in hiring homosexuals.
He has voted against measures that would make it easier to jail juveniles in adult prisons, and against another measure that would have imposed additional penalties for crimes involving the use of guns.
But Schumer, who has spent many of his 18 years in Congress preparing for the seven weeks of this general election campaign, has also repeatedly voted in favor of a federal death penalty.
(Though Schumer earlier in his life opposed the death penalty.)
He was the sponsor of legislation to provide funds to hire police officers and to ban many forms of assault weapons.
He voted to restrict the rights of illegal immigrants in some cases, and in favor of legislation to crack down on food-stamp fraud.
He supported the line-item veto.
He also voted in favor of a measure that would ban the recognition of marriages between homosexuals.
Similarly, on many levels, D'Amato's Republican credentials seem more than secure.
He has opposed abortion rights throughout his career, and voted against gun control.
He has supported many aspects of Gingrich's attempts to cut social spending, and his votes on environmental legislation have earned him consistently weak ratings from national environmental groups.
Yet D'Amato is no less nimble than Schumer.
The senator voted for the federal legislation that would ban discrimination in hiring against homosexuals; he is poised to win the endorsement of one of the nation's major gay rights groups, the Human Rights Campaign.
He became one of the chief advocates in Washington of repealing legislation passed by a Republican Congress (with his support) that curbed benefits to the children of illegal immigrants.
On Sunday, he spoke before one of the largest black congregations in New York City at the church in Queens led by a former congressman, the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, where he recounted his efforts to push through a commemorative coin for Jackie Robinson.
He is planning to testify in Washington on Tuesday about ways to curb acid rain.
And he has pushed consistently and successfully for spending on breast cancer research and screening.
As a matter of politics, the efforts by these two candidates suggests how complicated it is becoming to run a statewide race in New York.
The shifting ideology of the electorate, combined with the diminishing vote out of New York City in state elections, means that being viewed as a liberal is no longer the electoral lift that it once was.
Yet New York remains a long way from being a conservative state.
In the end, the best evidence of where these two candidates stand could be found in the endorsement by Schumer last week by District Council 37, the umbrella group of unions representing New York City employees.
What was surprising was not that this historically solid Democratic union endorsed Schumer but that it anguished so much over it all.
``There are differences between them,'' said Norman Adler, the political consultant who works for Republicans and Democrats.
``But on the whole, they are less different than you would like to think.''
Anyone following the U.S. Senate race in New York this year could be forgiven for concluding that this is one of the epic ideological battles of the 1990s: the right-wing extremist, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, versus the ultraliberal Brooklyn congressman, Charles Schumer.
On one side is D'Amato, who, as Schumer said again Sunday, voted to cut Medicare, opposed abortion rights and battled environmentalists.
On the other is Schumer, who, as D'Amato likes to say, voted against crime bills, opposed welfare restrictions and supported a series of tax increases.
But the truth behind these ideological caricatures is considerably more complex, despite the best efforts of Schumer and D'Amato to confuse it.
These two candidates for Senate are, in fact, political hybrids, masters of the fluid school of politics and ideology that has emerged in U.S. elections in the 1990s, and very much in the tradition of such successful politicians as Bill Clinton, Rudolph Giuliani and George Pataki.
Like Clinton, who campaigned in the New Hampshire Democratic primary in 1992 on a promise to slash welfare, and Pataki, who ran for New York governor in 1994 by embracing the environmental movement, D'Amato and Schumer have defied just enough of their parties' orthodoxy to resist easy characterization.
Their legislative histories are certainly littered with votes that permit their opponents to paint them as extreme, like Schumer's voting in the state Assembly to weaken drug laws, or D'Amato's championing of much of House Speaker Newt Gingrich's Contract With America.
But like most New Yorkers _ or more specifically, like most people who will vote on Nov. 3 _ the three-term Republican senator and his Democratic challenger are closer to the center than to either extreme.
``I do not think they are as different as they say,'' said the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader who ran for the Democratic nomination to challenge D'Amato in 1992.
``Chuck has always been right of center in the Democratic Party, and D'Amato has always been, well, whatever works for him on that given day.
They are both rewriting as they go.''
The flood of conflicting vote citations and ideological name-calling that have filled the state's airwaves notwithstanding, these first three weeks of the general election campaign have been less about ideology and more about tactics.
With a nod to the political reality of the moderate cast of New York's electorate, D'Amato and Schumer are each trying to accomplish the same thing, if from different corners of the ring: to cover the tracks of their own political evolution while portraying their opponent as extreme.
This maneuvering began on the first day of the general election campaign as D'Amato attacked Schumer as liberal while the representative assailed D'Amato as soft on crime.
And it has continued every day since then, testimony to one of the most enduring facts of this contest: Whatever their differences on issues, as political tacticians, Schumer and D'Amato have similar reflexes.
This is nothing new for D'Amato.
He has historically prepared for each election with a march on the political center, and then campaigned by portraying his opponents, notably Robert Abrams, the state attorney general, in 1992, as liberal vestiges.
This formula, combined with a record of tending to the more parochial needs of the state and its voters, largely accounts for D'Amato's repeated success at winning re-election in what is, by registration, a strongly Democratic state.
What is different this time is that D'Amato has encountered in Schumer a challenger who is trying to do to the senator what the senator typically does to his opponent.
The representative has parried each ideological assault by D'Amato by asserting that it is the senator who is the ideological extremist, and then by blurring his own ideological evolution with a recitation of what was his own march on the political center as he prepared in Congress for this race.
It seems unlikely that Schumer will ever convince voters that he is, for example, tougher on crime than D'Amato, or that D'Amato is a foot soldier for Gingrich's Republican revolution.
But at the very least, by echoing D'Amato's tactics, Schumer may succeed in neutralizing a weapon that D'Amato has used against previous opponents to devastating effect.
nn 	D'Amato certainly has a basis for saying that Schumer is to the left of most of the U.S. electorate.
Schumer voted against the 1996 bill that restricted welfare benefits.
He opposed the balanced-budget amendment.
He has supported a series of tax increases over the years.
He voted for federal legislation that would ban discrimination in hiring homosexuals.
He has voted against measures that would make it easier to jail juveniles in adult prisons, and against another measure that would have imposed additional penalties for crimes involving the use of guns.
But Schumer, who has spent many of his 18 years in Congress preparing for the seven weeks of this general election campaign, has also repeatedly voted in favor of a federal death penalty.
(Though Schumer earlier in his life opposed the death penalty.)
He was the sponsor of legislation to provide funds to hire police officers and to ban many forms of assault weapons.
He voted to restrict the rights of illegal immigrants in some cases, and in favor of legislation to crack down on food-stamp fraud.
He supported the line-item veto.
He also voted in favor of a measure that would ban the recognition of marriages between homosexuals.
Similarly, on many levels, D'Amato's Republican credentials seem more than secure.
He has opposed abortion rights throughout his career, and voted against gun control.
He has supported many aspects of Gingrich's attempts to cut social spending, and his votes on environmental legislation have earned him consistently weak ratings from national environmental groups.
Yet D'Amato is no less nimble than Schumer.
The senator voted for the federal legislation that would ban discrimination in hiring against homosexuals; he is poised to win the endorsement of one of the nation's major gay rights groups, the Human Rights Campaign.
He became one of the chief advocates in Washington of repealing legislation passed by a Republican Congress (with his support) that curbed benefits to the children of illegal immigrants.
On Sunday, he spoke before one of the largest black congregations in New York City at the church in Queens led by a former congressman, the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, where he recounted his efforts to push through a commemorative coin for Jackie Robinson.
He is planning to testify in Washington on Tuesday about ways to curb acid rain.
And he has pushed consistently and successfully for spending on breast cancer research and screening.
As a matter of politics, the efforts by these two candidates suggests how complicated it is becoming to run a statewide race in New York.
The shifting ideology of the electorate, combined with the diminishing vote out of New York City in state elections, means that being viewed as a liberal is no longer the electoral lift that it once was.
Yet New York remains a long way from being a conservative state.
In the end, the best evidence of where these two candidates stand could be found in the endorsement by Schumer last week by District Council 37, the umbrella group of unions representing New York City employees.
What was surprising was not that this historically solid Democratic union endorsed Schumer but that it anguished so much over it all.
``There are differences between them,'' said Norman Adler, the political consultant who works for Republicans and Democrats.
``But on the whole, they are less different than you would like to think.''
As several of its members observed, Monday's debate and votes in the House Judiciary Committee marked only the third time in the nation's history that impeachment of a president has been formally considered on Capitol Hill.
In that limited sense, the approval of a full-scale impeachment process was historic.
But it was by no means decisive, no matter how much the legislators huffed and puffed.
It was only a first short step along a rocky road whose length is not known _not by President Clinton, not by the public and not even by committee members (although the chairman, Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said this weekend that he hoped the House of Representatives could finish its work before year's end).
``The Constitution provides our compass,'' said Rep. Edward Pease, R-Ind.
``I intend to follow it.''
But neither he nor his colleagues could say for sure where it would ultimately point.
Meeting in the same room where Richard Nixon's fate was sealed a quarter-century ago, Republicans stressed parallels to that era.
This case is about law-breaking, they said, and not about illicit sex.
To which Rep. John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the committee's senior Democrat, retorted: ``This is not about Watergate.
It is about an extramarital affair.''
That is the fault line, so far unbridgeable, between the two parties.
People in Washington universally assume that the House as a whole will vote later this week to ratify the committee's decision.
The Republicans have the votes to prevail.
But if only Republicans support the procedural plans set out by their leadership, as was the case in the final vote Monday night, the decision will be seen by many in the country as a purely partisan proposition.
That next roll call will help set the tone for what lies ahead.
If only a half-dozen Democrats join the Republicans, the image of trench warfare will be reinforced and the subsequent inquiry will begin under something of a cloud; if 50 or 75 do so, the vote will confer a greater degree of legitimacy.
The more the average voter thinks that the Republicans are ganging up on the president, his strategists believe, the better his chances of surviving.
Of course, consensus or something approaching it may develop later.
Only well into the final stages of the committee's 1974 hearings on the impeachment of Nixon did significant numbers of Republican members join the Democrats in concluding that Nixon had committed impeachable offenses.
The fact that they finally did led people on both sides to judge its actions fair.
In the other case of presidential impeachment, Andrew Johnson survived a Senate trial because just enough members of the opposition party broke ranks and voted to back him.
Once this week's votes have been taken, attention will shift to the midterm elections on Nov. 3.
The conventional wisdom in Washington has shifted rapidly in recent days, from a belief in the days before the release of Kenneth Starr's report that changes would be minimal, especially in the House, to a suspicion that Democratic losses would be large, which took hold in the days before the tape of Clinton's grand jury testimony was released.
Now there is a growing conviction that the Republicans erred by releasing the tape, creating a backlash that could help marginal House Democrats.
Two caveats seem in order, however.
While the president's troubles seem less likely to influence Senate races, Democrats were in big trouble in those without any drag from Washington.
A number of independent analysts see Republican gains of four to six seats.
Major losses in the House are still possible, too, perhaps 20 or more seats if Republican voters turn out en masse and Democrats do not.
``I'm astonished,'' said a senior Republican senator on Capitol Hill, who comes from the Sun Belt.
``Differential turnouts aren't really very common, you know.
But this year, Democratic voters seem to be in a sulk, and the Republicans act like they'd turn out even if it snowed on Election Day.''
Big gains might embolden Republican legislators in their pursuit of Clinton.
But the political terrain is tricky.
After November, both parties will have to play to the 2000 electorate _ larger, spread more broadly across the economic scale, and less intensely partisan _ and that might have a tempering effect on the zeal of the Republicans in Congress.
The detailed terms of the case developed by the inquiry, and how it is developed, will have an impact as well.
Unshakeable as the preconceptions of many committee members sounded Monday, experience suggests that over a long period, some of them and some others in the House will change their minds.
If Clinton and Monica Lewinsky are called as witnesses, their deportment will certainly influence some representatives.
How they and their interrogators behave will influence voters as well.
Clinton is a formidable persuader, and any attempt to break down his testimony would run the risk of alienating people who would sense disrespect for the presidency.
A foreign crisis _ a genuine foreign crisis, as opposed to one that the administration was suspected of inventing _ could radically change the context of the inquiry, too.
Republicans might find themselves under fire for distracting the commander in chief from important security responsibilites.
And what of the topics other than Ms. Lewinsky that Starr has investigated?
Hyde insisted Monday night that the independent counsel was still pursuing the original Whitewater matter and other controversies; one of the committee's ranking Democrats, Rep. Barney Frank of Massachusetts, insisted that no more would be forthcoming from Starr.
Ambiguity keeps the pot boiling; wrapping up the other cases would take some of the steam out of the House inquiry.
All of those ideas, all of those possibilities will be in the air as the House debates impeachment in November and December.
Depending on how they coalesce, the Republican leadership might or might not be receptive to a compromise, either before a committee vote or after a committee vote to approve articles of impeachment, before ratification by the House as a whole.
At any time, of course, Clinton could change his mind and decide to resign.
Nixon's decision to quit came after the committee had voted.
But it was motivated by the emergence of new evidence (the ``smoking gun'') more than the vote itself, plus the belief he could not win in the Senate.
Clinton's aides say he would rather be a second Andrew Johnson, surviving in the Senate by a tiny margin, than a second Richard Nixon.
As things now stand, he would appear to have a good chance of getting the 34 votes he would need (one-third of the total plus one) to win a Senate trial.
But that is not chiseled in stone, either.
The Republicans could have 60 seats by the time the case reached the Senate.
In that case, if they lost none of their own partisans, a switch of only seven Democrats would doom Clinton.
A remote possibility, certainly, but then so much of what has happened so far in this case seemed highly improbable until it happened.
Almost every member of the House Judiciary Committee paid some tribute to the Constitution and the Founding Fathers Monday.
Many said portentously that their debates and votes would be remembered for generations.
The muse of history was obviously working overtime.
True, it was only the third time that presidential impeachment has been formally considered on Capitol Hill.
But only in that limited sense was the approval of a full-scale impeachment process historic.
It was by no means decisive, no matter how much the legislators huffed and puffed.
This was only a first step along a rocky road whose length is not known _ not by President Clinton, not by the public and not even by committee members (although the chairman, Rep. Henry J. Hyde, R-Ill., said last weekend that he hoped the House of Representatives could finish its work before year's end).
``The Constitution provides our compass,'' said Rep. Edward Pease, R-Ind.
``I intend to follow it.''
But neither he nor his colleagues could say for sure where it would ultimately point.
Meeting in the same room where Richard Nixon's fate was sealed a quarter-century ago, Republicans stressed parallels to that era.
This case is about law-breaking, they said, and not about illicit sex.
To which Rep. John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the committee's senior Democrat, retorted: ``This is not about Watergate.
It is about an extramarital affair.''
That is the fault line, so far unbridgeable, between the two parties.
People in Washington universally assume that the House as a whole will vote later this week to ratify the committee's decision.
The Republicans have the votes to prevail.
But if only Republicans support the procedural plans set out by their leadership, as was the case in the final vote Monday night, the decision will be seen by many in the country as a purely partisan proposition.
That next roll call will help set the tone for what lies ahead.
If only a half-dozen Democrats join the Republicans, the image of trench warfare will be reinforced and the subsequent inquiry will begin under something of a cloud; if 50 or 75 do so, the vote will confer a greater degree of legitimacy.
The more the average voter thinks that the Republicans are ganging up on the president, his strategists believe, the better his chances of surviving.
Of course, consensus or something approaching it may develop later.
Only well into the final stages of the committee's 1974 hearings on the impeachment of Nixon did significant numbers of Republican members join the Democrats in concluding that Nixon had committed impeachable offenses.
The fact that they finally did led people on both sides to judge its actions fair.
In the other case of presidential impeachment, Andrew Johnson survived a Senate trial because just enough members of the opposition party broke ranks and voted to back him.
Once this week's votes have been taken, attention will shift to the midterm elections on Nov. 3.
The conventional wisdom in Washington has shifted rapidly in recent days, from a belief in the days before the release of Kenneth Starr's report that changes would be minimal, especially in the House, to a suspicion that Democratic losses would be large, which took hold in the days before the tape of Clinton's grand jury testimony was released.
Now there is a growing conviction that the Republicans erred by releasing the tape, creating a backlash that could help marginal House Democrats.
Two caveats seem in order, however.
While the president's troubles seem less likely to influence Senate races, Democrats were in big trouble in those without any drag from Washington.
A number of independent analysts see Republican gains of four to six seats.
Major losses in the House are still possible, too, perhaps 20 or more seats if Republican voters turn out en masse and Democrats do not.
``Differential turnouts aren't really very common, you know,'' said a senior Republican senator on Capitol Hill.
``But this year, Democratic voters seem to be in a sulk, and the Republicans act like they'd turn out even if it snowed on Election Day.''
Big gains might embolden Republican legislators in their pursuit of Clinton.
But the political terrain is tricky.
After November, both parties will have to play to the 2000 electorate _ larger, spread more broadly across the economic scale, and less intensely partisan _ and that might have a tempering effect on the zeal of the Republicans in Congress.
The detailed terms of the case developed by the inquiry, and how it is developed, will have an impact as well.
Unshakeable as the preconceptions of many committee members sounded Monday, experience suggests that over a long period, some of them and some others in the House will change their minds.
If Clinton and Monica Lewinsky are called as witnesses, their deportment will certainly influence some representatives.
How they and their interrogators behave will influence voters as well.
Clinton is a formidable persuader, and any attempt to break down his testimony would run the risk of alienating people who would sense disrespect for the presidency.
A foreign crisis _ a genuine foreign crisis, as opposed to one that the administration was suspected of inventing _ could radically change the context of the inquiry, too.
Republicans might find themselves under fire for distracting the commander in chief from important security responsibilities.
And what of the topics other than Ms. Lewinsky that Starr has investigated?
Hyde insisted Monday night that the independent counsel was still pursuing the original Whitewater matter and other controversies; one of the committee's ranking Democrats, Rep. Barney Frank of Massachusetts, insisted that no more would be forthcoming from Starr.
Ambiguity keeps the pot boiling; wrapping up the other cases would take some of the steam out of the House inquiry.
All of those ideas, all of those possibilities will be in the air as the House debates impeachment in November and December.
Depending on how they coalesce, the Republican leadership might or might not be receptive to a compromise, either before a committee vote or after a committee vote to approve articles of impeachment, before ratification by the House as a whole.
At any time, of course, Clinton could change his mind and decide to resign.
Nixon's decision to quit came after the committee had voted.
But it was motivated by the emergence of new evidence more than the vote itself, plus the belief he could not win in the Senate.
Clinton's aides say he would rather be a second Andrew Johnson, surviving in the Senate by a tiny margin, than a second Richard Nixon.
As things now stand, he would appear to have a good chance of getting the 34 votes he would need (one-third of the total plus one) to win a Senate trial.
But that is not chiseled in stone, either.
The Republicans could have 60 seats by the time the case reached the Senate.
In that case, if they lost none of their own partisans, a switch of only seven Democrats would doom Clinton.
A remote possibility, certainly, but then so much of what has happened so far in this case seemed highly improbable until it happened.
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato and Rep. Charles Schumer are locked in an extraordinarily tight race for the U.S. Senate.
The outcome apparently rests with a small group of undecided voters, many of whom are not yet paying attention to the contest, a statewide New York Times/CBS News Poll has found.
With a month to go until the election, the poll found a large number of respondents _ 60 percent _ either had no opinion about Schumer, or did not know enough about him to offer an opinion.
At the same time, a sizable number of voters continue to voice reservations about D'Amato's ethics and ideology, including many undecided voters and some respondents who identified themselves as the senator's supporters.
The findings suggest two dynamics that will shape the New York contest in its final weeks: a struggle by both camps to define Schumer's public personality among voters who do not know him, and an attempt by Schumer to exploit the obvious and strong liabilities D'Amato carries as a three-term Republican senator in New York.
In some ways, this closely watched contest is shaping up as a replay of the 1992 Senate race, when D'Amato ran against Robert Abrams, the former state attorney general.
A Times poll in the third week of October 1992 found D'Amato in an effective tie with his Democratic challenger.
D'Amato ultimately defeated Abrams by a single percentage point after a searing campaign.
But this latest Times/CBS News poll points to a number of ways in which this contest is different from 1992, and that is not necessarily good news for D'Amato.
An equal number of voters now view D'Amato and Schumer as being serious when it comes to dealing with crime, evidence that the nine-term Brooklyn congressman has achieved some success in neutralizing a traditionally Republican issue.
While D'Amato continues to be widely viewed as ``the kind of person who gets things done for the voters'' _ clearly one of his biggest political advantages going into the last couple of months _ a substantial number of respondents said he was lacking in honesty and integrity, and that he did not care ``about the needs and problems of people like you.''
Schumer scored strongly on both measures.
And perhaps most strikingly, D'Amato's intense effort to derail Schumer's campaign with a series of attacks these past three weeks _ from portraying him as a liberal to spotlighting votes he has missed in Washington as he campaigned in New York this year _ has yet to show obvious effect on the public's view of the congressman.
Only 18 percent of respondents had an unfavorable rating of Schumer, compared to 22 percent who had a favorable rating.
By contrast, in a poll conducted in the third week of October of 1992, Abrams was viewed unfavorably by one in three voters.
In the current poll, D'Amato is viewed favorably by 27 percent and unfavorably by 36 percent, virtually the same marks he received six years ago.
By almost every measure that pollsters use to try to analyze an election _ registered voters, likely voters, and taking into account how undecided New Yorkers might be leaning toward _ this contest is a dead heat.
Among registered voters, Schumer is supported by 44 percent, compared to 41 percent for D'Amato.
There were 12 percent undecided.
Among those respondents considered most likely to vote, based on their past behavior and current level of interest in the contest, the margin is 47 percent for Schumer to 43 percent for D'Amato.
The Times/CBS News statewide telephone poll was conducted from last Thursday through Tuesday with 1,461 adults, of whom 1,066 said they were registered to vote.
It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three points.
Therefore, among registered voters, Schumer could be ahead by as much as nine points _ or D'Amato could be ahead by three points.
She says he is ``duplicitous,'' a ``wolf in sheep's clothing'' who has resorted to ``scuzzball'' campaign tactics in the past.
He has described her as ``shrill,'' claims she ``has nothing positive to say about her own record'' and that her career has been ``obscured by numerous scandals and controversies.''
The U.S. Senate race between the incumbent Democrat, Carol Moseley-Braun, and state Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, a conservative Republican, has become one of the most tensely watched campaigns in the country.
And with less than a month to go, the candidates have dropped all pretense of keeping the gloves on.
The latest poll, published last week in The Chicago Tribune, suggests that Ms. Moseley-Braun, elected in 1992 as a radiantly rising star, is in serious election trouble.
She lagged behind Fitzgerald by 10 percentage points, with more voters saying they believed Fitzgerald was the more honest and trustworthy candidate.
The poll, which had a margin of error of 3 percentage points, also suggested that she has lost considerable support among suburban women, one of the main groups that swept her into office six years ago in what became known as the ``Year of the Woman.''
Dogged by a series of missteps and poor judgments in her personal and political life, Ms. Moseley-Braun, 51, who was catapulted from an obscure Cook County office to become the nation's first black female senator, has had trouble getting voters to focus on her legislative accomplishments.
And she has been soundly outspent by Fitzgerald, a 37-year-old multimillionaire from the Chicago suburbs who inherited his family banking fortune and spent $7 million of his own money on the Republican primary alone.
``Have I not handled my own publicity and image making as well as I could have?''
Ms. Moseley-Braun said in an interview.
``There's no question about that.
Have I not handled the politics as well as I could have?
No question.
But I certainly have worked as hard as I can.
I've got a great legislative record.
And with all the things that have been thrown at me, none of them has stuck.''
Fitzgerald, considered so conservative that most Republican leaders supported his moderate opponent in the bitterly contested primary, has wasted no opportunity to try to make Ms. Moseley-Braun's mistakes stick and to deflect her characterization of him as an extremist by painting her as an ineffectual liberal.
``Although her career has been somewhat obscured by numerous scandals and controversies, those who have noticed her voting record have noticed it is very extreme,'' Fitzgerald said in an interview.
Across the board, these are tough times for Illinois Democrats.
In the hotly contested race to replace Gov. Jim Edgar, a Republican who is retiring, Glenn Poshard, a Democratic congressman from downstate Illinois, trailed George Ryan, the Republican Secretary of State, by 22 percentage points in The Tribune's poll.
Poshard has alienated liberal Democrats with his opposition to abortion rights and some gay rights issues, as well as his past votes against gun control and environmental measures.
And he has tried without much success to tar Ryan with a scandal in which employees of the secretary of state's office are accused of taking bribes in return for granting truck licenses, and using some of the bribe money to support Ryan and other candidates.
Democrats running for other offices, even those in heavily Democratic Cook County, are running into trouble, too.
This year, the state legislature eliminated straight-party voting in Illinois, long considered a boon to Democrats.
And although Democrats are hoping that the efforts of congressional Republicans to impeach President Clinton may spur Democrats to the polls in a kind of backlash, so far the president's problems have not helped matters and could lower turnout among Democratic voters.
( Poshard even stayed away from a Chicago fund-raiser on his behalf which Clinton attended).
All of that is making things harder for Ms. Moseley-Braun in a race that has her looking more like a challenger than an incumbent.
``I've always thought she was going to be in a tough race, even against Fitzgerald, but I didn't think it was going to be this tough,'' said Dawn Clark Netsch, a Democrat who ran for governor in 1994.
nn 	The senator had to press hard to get Fitzgerald to agree to a debate, which was held on Sunday.
After it was over, she said she had not expected him to try to ``paint himself as a centrist'' and said, ``I could have made him show his true colors better.''
Fitzgerald, for his part, said the senator sounded ``shrill'' in the debate and that she ``wasn't even able to understand what I was talking about when I was talking about Social Security.''
Democrats had hoped Fitzgerald would win the primary because they believed his conservative views would make him easier to defeat.
Fitzgerald, who started running for the state legislature soon after he finished law school, believes his wealth has allowed him to be more independent in his political views.
He opposes abortion, even in cases of rape or incest, sponsored a bill signed into law by Edgar that bans same-sex marriages and would screen gay people out of the military.
He would use the federal budget surplus to provide tax cuts, while Ms. Moseley-Braun would use it to shore up Social Security.
Ms. Moseley-Braun, who sits on the Senate Finance Committee, has concentrated on cleaning up polluted industrial sites in cities, fixing decrepit school buildings, improving pension laws for women and fighting for tax breaks on airline tickets and ethanol, issues important in Illinois.
But from the start, she has also had to fend off accusations that she misused an inheritance instead of reimbursing Medicaid for her mother's care, ignored accusations of sexual harassment against her 1992 campaign manager and former fiance, Kgosie Matthews, and that she and Matthews spent tens of thousands of campaign dollars on personal travel, clothes, jewelry and stereo equipment.
Although no investigation found any criminal wrongdoing and Ms. Moseley-Braun has acknowledged making mistakes in judgment, she has not been able to shake what she calls her ``negatives.''
A few weeks ago, when George Will raised these issues in his column, the senator lost her temper, used a racial slur to portray herself as a victim of racism and compared Will to a member of the Ku Klux Klan, forcing her to apologize.
``She knows that she's in a dogfight.
Most incumbents don't want to debate,'' said Paul Green, a professor of political science at Governors State University in Chicago.
In the remaining weeks of the campaign, Ms. Moseley-Braun, a charismatic campaigner, said she will work hard to reach disaffected supporters.
Her campaign has raised about $6 million (compared to the $10 million Fitzgerald has already spent) and has scheduled fund-raisers with Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
``I've worked myself already into bad health,'' said Ms. Moseley-Braun, who was treated last week for bronchial pneumonia at a Texas hospital after she fell ill on a flight to Dallas.
``I'm doing everything I know how.''
She says he is ``duplicitous,'' a ``wolf in sheep's clothing'' who has resorted to ``scuzzball'' campaign tactics in the past.
He has described her as ``shrill,'' claims she ``has nothing positive to say about her own record'' and that her career has been ``obscured by numerous scandals and controversies.''
The U.S. Senate race between the incumbent Democrat, Carol Moseley-Braun, and state Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, a conservative Republican, has become one of the most tensely watched campaigns in the country.
And with less than a month to go, the candidates have dropped all pretense of keeping the gloves on.
The latest poll, published last week in The Chicago Tribune, suggests that Ms. Moseley-Braun, elected in 1992 as a radiantly rising star, is in serious election trouble.
She lagged behind Fitzgerald by 10 percentage points, with more voters saying they believed Fitzgerald was the more honest and trustworthy candidate.
The poll, which had a margin of error of 3 percentage points, also suggested that she has lost considerable support among suburban women, one of the main groups that swept her into office six years ago in what became known as the ``Year of the Woman.''
Dogged by a series of missteps and poor judgments in her personal and political life, Ms. Moseley-Braun, 51, who was catapulted from an obscure Cook County office to become the nation's first black female senator, has had trouble getting voters to focus on her legislative accomplishments.
And she has been soundly outspent by Fitzgerald, a 37-year-old multimillionaire from the Chicago suburbs who inherited his family banking fortune and spent $7 million of his own money on the Republican primary alone.
``Have I not handled my own publicity and image making as well as I could have?''
Ms. Moseley-Braun said in an interview.
``There's no question about that.
Have I not handled the politics as well as I could have?
No question.
But I certainly have worked as hard as I can.
I've got a great legislative record.
And with all the things that have been thrown at me, none of them has stuck.''
Fitzgerald, considered so conservative that most Republican leaders supported his moderate opponent in the bitterly contested primary, has wasted no opportunity to try to make Ms. Moseley-Braun's mistakes stick and to deflect her characterization of him as an extremist by painting her as an ineffectual liberal.
``Although her career has been somewhat obscured by numerous scandals and controversies, those who have noticed her voting record have noticed it is very extreme,'' Fitzgerald said in an interview.
Across the board, these are tough times for Illinois Democrats.
In the hotly contested race to replace Gov. Jim Edgar, a Republican who is retiring, Glenn Poshard, a Democratic congressman from downstate Illinois, trailed George Ryan, the Republican Secretary of State, by 22 percentage points in The Tribune's poll.
Poshard has alienated liberal Democrats with his opposition to abortion rights and some gay rights issues, as well as his past votes against gun control and environmental measures.
And he has tried without much success to tar Ryan with a scandal in which employees of the secretary of state's office are accused of taking bribes in return for granting truck licenses, and using some of the bribe money to support Ryan and other candidates.
Democrats running for other offices, even those in heavily Democratic Cook County, are running into trouble, too.
This year, the state legislature eliminated straight-party voting in Illinois, long considered a boon to Democrats.
And although Democrats are hoping that the efforts of congressional Republicans to impeach President Clinton may spur Democrats to the polls in a kind of backlash, so far the president's problems have not helped matters and could lower turnout among Democratic voters.
( Poshard even stayed away from a Chicago fund-raiser on his behalf which Clinton attended).
All of that is making things harder for Ms. Moseley-Braun in a race that has her looking more like a challenger than an incumbent.
``I've always thought she was going to be in a tough race, even against Fitzgerald, but I didn't think it was going to be this tough,'' said Dawn Clark Netsch, a Democrat who ran for governor in 1994.
nn 	The senator had to press hard to get Fitzgerald to agree to a debate, which was held on Sunday.
After it was over, she said she had not expected him to try to ``paint himself as a centrist'' and said, ``I could have made him show his true colors better.''
Fitzgerald, for his part, said the senator sounded ``shrill'' in the debate and that she ``wasn't even able to understand what I was talking about when I was talking about Social Security.''
Democrats had hoped Fitzgerald would win the primary because they believed his conservative views would make him easier to defeat.
Fitzgerald, who started running for the state legislature soon after he finished law school, believes his wealth has allowed him to be more independent in his political views.
He opposes abortion, even in cases of rape or incest, sponsored a bill signed into law by Edgar that bans same-sex marriages and would screen gay people out of the military.
He would use the federal budget surplus to provide tax cuts, while Ms. Moseley-Braun would use it to shore up Social Security.
Ms. Moseley-Braun, who sits on the Senate Finance Committee, has concentrated on cleaning up polluted industrial sites in cities, fixing decrepit school buildings, improving pension laws for women and fighting for tax breaks on airline tickets and ethanol, issues important in Illinois.
But from the start, she has also had to fend off accusations that she misused an inheritance instead of reimbursing Medicaid for her mother's care, ignored accusations of sexual harassment against her 1992 campaign manager and former fiance, Kgosie Matthews, and that she and Matthews spent tens of thousands of campaign dollars on personal travel, clothes, jewelry and stereo equipment.
Although no investigation found any criminal wrongdoing and Ms. Moseley-Braun has acknowledged making mistakes in judgment, she has not been able to shake what she calls her ``negatives.''
A few weeks ago, when George Will raised these issues in his column, the senator lost her temper, used a racial slur to portray herself as a victim of racism and compared Will to a member of the Ku Klux Klan, forcing her to apologize.
``She knows that she's in a dogfight.
Most incumbents don't want to debate,'' said Paul Green, a professor of political science at Governors State University in Chicago.
In the remaining weeks of the campaign, Ms. Moseley-Braun, a charismatic campaigner, said she will work hard to reach disaffected supporters.
Her campaign has raised about $6 million (compared to the $10 million Fitzgerald has already spent) and has scheduled fund-raisers with Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
``I've worked myself already into bad health,'' said Ms. Moseley-Braun, who was treated last week for bronchial pneumonia at a Texas hospital after she fell ill on a flight to Dallas.
``I'm doing everything I know how.''
Rep. Louise Slaughter has not been a big fan of her fellow Democrat Bill Clinton.
She thinks that he was a major reason the Democrats lost control of Congress in 1994, that he has struck one too many deals with the Republicans, and that his behavior has been reckless and abhorrent.
Two months ago, she was on the verge of urging him to resign.
But as the House prepares to vote on whether to open an impeachment inquiry into the president, Ms. Slaughter, from Rochester, N.Y., finds herself deeply torn.
As much as she would not mind seeing Bill Clinton out of office, she worries that Congress is about to start down a path the Founding Fathers never envisioned.
``I'm not interested in what happens to Bill Clinton,'' she said.
``It's the country and the Constitution I'm concerned about.''
Rep. Jim Maloney, D-Conn., is in a different bind.
He is locked in one of the toughest races of any House member, against a challenger who has made Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky a major campaign issue.
Yet Maloney also believes that the majority of his constituents are fed up with demeaning investigations into the president.
So while the freshman congressman could support a limited investigation, he remains painfully uncertain about how to vote on what may be the only alternative available to him: a Republican plan that would allow an open-ended inquiry that he fears could drag on for years.
``If we do that, we'll just be opening the door to the partisan mischief that has been going on for so long around this place,'' he said.
Across Capitol Hill on Wednesday, the fence sitters in Washington's impeachment debate were consulting constitutional scholars, meeting with colleagues and spouses, rereading the Federalist Papers and studying their political tea leaves, searching for any inspiration that could help tip their mental scales one way or the other.
Most were preparing to follow party lines, but among that dwindling group of undecideds are two large groups of Democrats facing different pressures.
On one side are people like Ms. Slaughter, who have become deeply disaffected with Clinton, and who believe he has done little to advance the congressional Democrats' agenda and now feel hesitant about helping him out of his bind.
On the other are people like Maloney, who are locked in tough re-election fights and who are concerned that appearing soft on Clinton will infuriate swing voters.
``What will I do before I decide?''
asked Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr., D-N.J., who is also among the fence sitters.
``I'll pray.
And then I'll move on.''
In an interview in her Capitol Hill office, Ms. Slaughter said Clinton would not be a factor in her decision.
``He happens to be occupying the important spot there, and I want to do what I can to preserve the presidency,'' she said.
But she recalled with evident disgust a phone call in August from a White House official who was looking for ``Senator Slaughter'' and who expressed surprise that she had an office in Rochester.
``That's how far down the list I am, I guess,'' she said.
She also said Clinton's poor relations with congressional Democrats had hurt the party's congressional candidates in 1996 and 1994.
``He didn't say this, but Dick Morris said it for him: Bill Clinton didn't care who ran for Congress,'' she said.
Ms. Slaughter said she was prepared in August to call on Clinton to resign, but backed away after seeing his videotaped performance for the grand jury.
``I thought his rights were, frankly, abridged terribly,'' she said.
``No other human being in the United States would have been subjected to that.''
In recent days, Ms. Slaughter said, she had been speaking to constitutional scholars about impeachment precedents, and meeting with small groups of colleagues from both parties who remain undecided.
At this moment, she is leaning toward voting against an inquiry.
``We're not trying to get by an election, or get by a hard spot here,'' she said.
``What we do here has ramifications far beyond our lives.''
Maloney said he had been studying the report of the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth Starr, reviewing Clinton's rebuttals and videotaped testimony, talking with friends on the House Judiciary Committee and trying to listen to constituents.
The latter group, he says, falls into three equal subgroups: those who want the matter dropped, those who want Clinton impeached, and those who want some lesser punishment.
Maloney, a former state senator, represents a western Connecticut district that was held by Republicans for many years, including Gov. John Rowland, until Maloney wrested it from Rep. Gary Franks in the Clinton landslide of 1996.
Since then, Maloney has tiptoed across party lines on many occasions, including to support a Republican tax-cut plan this year.
Maloney's Republican opponent, state Sen. Mark Nielsen, has called on Clinton to resign, and said Wednesday that he would make it an issue if Maloney votes against an impeachment inquiry.
``The Congress can't turn a blind eye to President Clinton's criminality,'' he said.
``And the congressman from the 5th District can't be a part of the Clinton defense strategy.''
Maloney contends that such talk only turns voters off and that a more thoughtful approach is what will sell in November.
``I have said this doesn't belong in politics,'' he said.
``I read the Constitution in a given way.
It isn't anything goes.''
Maloney said he would support a six-month inquiry with well-defined parameters, which could include the Lewinsky matter and any other matters referred by the independent counsel.
If the House can agree to such a bipartisan plan, Maloney said, his decision on Thursday will be easy.
``But that's not what I'm expecting,'' he said.
For all the talk of duty and Constitution, it was not all that difficult for the House to open a formal impeachment inquiry into President Clinton Thursday.
The more troublesome question is how Congress will bring to a conclusion the process that Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., called ``this venture, this excursion, this journey.''
The conventional wisdom, which Democrats have clung to across these tumultuous weeks for their party, is that the less impulsive Senate will never accumulate the votes to convict Clinton, and that inescapable fact will finally force some kind of a deal between the president and the Republicans.
``The president is going to remain in office,'' pronounced Rep. James Moran, D-Va.
``That's a foregone conclusion.''
But conventional wisdom has often been wrong in this strange political year dominated by Clinton's relationship with Monica Lewinsky, and intense causes sometimes take on a life and momentum of their own on Capitol Hill.
Many House members _ including some Republicans _ fear that having opened Pandora's box Thursday, they will never get it closed again without first moving through impeachment of the president and a Senate trial that could consume Congress for another year.
``It feels like it's out of control,'' said Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn.
``Everything's set in motion, and I don't know how you put it back in the box.''
This sense of riding a runaway train could diminish if after months of deliberations and gathering evidence, the Congress and the country jointly come to a national conclusion that Clinton should be impeached, tried and removed from office, like the consensus that Richard Nixon faced when he resigned.
The risk is that Congress could rush ahead without brakes even as the American people continue to resist the idea that Clinton should be ousted over the Lewinsky affair.
``This has the potential to be the most divisive issue in American public life since the Vietnam War,'' said Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. 	Two sharply different schools of thought co-exist on Capitol Hill about how the president's fate will be determined.
Which one prevails could well be decided by the outcome of the elections just three and a half weeks away, unless Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel, changes all the political calculations by forwarding to Congress new allegations of impeachable offenses.
Under the first outcome, the Republicans make only modest gains in November.
They decide they have wrung maximum political advantage out of Clinton's misconduct and that prolonged impeachment hearings could hurt them going into the 2000 presidential elections.
And for a brief window of time, the pressure to appease the party's conservative base would be off.
``I would say now that if nothing more comes out and there is no dramatic changes of seats in the House and the Senate, this will be resolved short of impeachment,'' said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y. ``If the elections stalemate, that will be a signal from the American people not to do impeachment, but to do something.''
The alternate script could play out if the Republicans make strong inroads in November.
Many Republicans have already signaled their deep belief that Clinton has committed perjury, obstructed justice, and placed himself above the laws that he has sworn to uphold.
One of their loudest voices, that of the House majority whip, accused Democrats Thursday of seeking ``the path of least resistance.
This is when we pitch the law overboard when the mood fits,'' said Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, ``when we ignore the facts in order to cover up the truth.''
For such Republicans an election sweep would be read as a strong mandate to move forward with actual impeachment.
And it could cause Democratic unity to crack, putting the president in even more jeopardy.
Still, Democrats on Thursday were adamant that their few defections on the inquiry vote mean that they are likely to stand united against actual impeachment.
``If Republicans are only able to pick off 15 percent of our members on a procedural vote three weeks before an election, how many votes are they likely to get four months from now on articles of impeachment?''
asked one Democratic strategist.
For now, the inquiry is likely to go on hold until after the elections.
Hyde said no hearings would be convened until later in November.
But battles are already brewing between the two parties over how to conduct the investigation.
nn 	Hyde has said he sees little reason to bring Ms. Lewinsky forward in public hearings, but the Democrats are likely to demand her appearance, adding to the sense of circus on Capitol Hill.
``You cannot have impeachment hearings where the star witness is not called and cross-examined,'' said Rep. Martin Meehan, D-Mass.
``You have to have Monica Lewinsky testify.
You have to have her mother testify.
You have to hear from Betty Currie and Vernon Jordan.''
And Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., the senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said Thursday that Starr would be someone the Democrats would want in the witness chair.
As these events move forward, Clinton's aides would dearly love to find a way to strike a deal on some punishment short of impeachment _ not in the Senate but before the House takes the actual impeachment vote, according to a Democratic strategist close to the White House.
Clinton, who has thought so often about his legacy, is now fighting not to become the only other president besides Andrew Johnson to be impeached by the House.
(Nixon resigned after the House Judiciary Committee reported out three articles of impeachment and before a House vote.)
Gingrich is the figure in the House who would have the stature to broker a deal, and just like Clinton, the speaker has an intense interest in how he is perceived in history.
But it is far from clear whether the Georgia Republican _ who presided from the speaker's chair through the entire House debate _ would have any interest in such a role.
He has his own personal considerations to weigh.
He will be standing for re-election as speaker when the new Congress convenes.
His relations with Clinton have ranged from furious to occasional moments of alliance, while his relations with House Democrats have ranged from poor to awful.
In a rare bipartisan leadership meeting over impeachment last month, he lectured House Democrats that he would be fairer to Clinton than Democrats were to Gingrich when his ethics troubles resulted in a House reprimand and a $300,000 fine.
Still, one House Republican with a good antenna for the speaker's intentions said that should the politics and timing be right, ``I think he will try to broker a deal.
He could come in at just the right moment and show he's above it all.''
But Rich Galen, a close associate of Gingrich's, said that if the evidence shows that Clinton committed perjury under oath, ``I don't think the speaker will think it's his role to get in the way of that process.''
Violence continues in Yugoslavia as the International Court in the Hague pushes to have inspectors return to investigate instances of war crimes.
President Milosevic continues to deny war crimes even amid reports of a massacre, described by a survivor, and murders by Serbian police in Kosovo.
The General Assembly voted to add three judges to the war crimes tribunal, which scored its first guilty verdicts, one of a Serb who confessed to killing fourteen.
The war crimes tribunal branded Yugoslavia a "rogue state" for denying entry to inspectors but, later, an agreement was reached to allow inspectors to return in November.
The U.N. war crimes tribunal created to investigate evidence of atrocities issued  its third conviction when a Bosnian Serb confessed to 14 murders.
At the trial of  four guards accused of atrocities against Serbs at a Bosnian prison, the tribunal  considered a lesser sentence against one guard because of evidence of mental disorder.
A potential witness for the tribunal survived a massacre in Kosovo that killed 13  ethnic Albanians.
Belgrade has refused to allow the tribunal to probe alleged  atrocities in Kosovo.
The U.S. unanimously disagrees with Yugoslavia's contention  that Kosovo is off limits and insists on compliance with investigations.
The international war crimes tribunal in The Hague considered including Kosovo  in its investigation of Yugoslavia.
Milosevic denounced the tribunal, saying no  crimes occurred.
Investigators left without visiting Kosovo or interviewing a lone  massacre survivor.
Milosevic agreed to comply but reneged.
The UN ruled investigators  had authority throughout Yugoslavia, called a "rogue state" for refusing Kosovo access.
Sanctions were threatened.
Three judges and a new trial chamber were added and crimes  on both sides investigated.
Bosnian Muslim guards at Celebici prison camp were charged  with murdering, torturing, raping and beating Serbian prisoners.
A Bosnian Serb pleaded  guilty to 14 murders, the tribunal's third conviction.
Pre-verdict sentencing arguments  speeded tribunal work.
The United Nations Security Council established a War Crimes Tribunal in 1993 to investigate and prosecute crimes arising from the breakup of Yugoslavia.
In October 1998, the tribunal secured its third conviction when a Bosnian Serb plead guilty to 13 murders.
Also that month, the trial of four for 1992 atrocities in a Bosnian prison camp was nearing completion.
Also, Kosovo became an area of contention.
The Yugoslavian government was claiming the tribunal had no jurisdiction over the 9-month rebellion and was refusing investigators visas.
The U.N. tribunal sought to enter the province and investigate atrocities reported by both sides.
A former Bosnian Muslim prison guard charged with war crimes against Serb captives should get a milder sentence because he suffers from mental problems worsened by the war, his lawyer told a U.N. tribunal Monday.
The appeal came during the final phase of the months-long trial of three Muslims and a Croat accused of atrocities at the Bosnian government-run Celebici prison camp in 1992.
On trial are Hazim Delic, Celebici's deputy commander; Zdravko Mucic, the camp's former commander; Esad Landzo, a former Celebici guard; and Zejnil Delalic, who prosecutors claim had overall responsibility for the camp.
All four defendants have pleaded innocent.
If convicted, they face maximum life sentences.
Although the three-judge panel at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal has not yet reached a verdict in the case, Monday's hearing allowed lawyers to introduce evidence that could help judges determine prison terms if the defendants are found guilty.
Landzo's lawyer, Cynthia McMurrey, was the first to present her case, using arguments ranging from Landzo's supposed rehabilitation to his fragile mental state during the war.
An expert witness testified that Landzo has a personality disorder which was compounded by the trauma of war and eventually led to diminished mental capacity, meaning he allegedly was unable to exercise his own free will to disobey orders during the war or to make decisions on his own.
In written arguments, Landzo's lawyers said his sentence _ if he is convicted _ should not be longer than five years.
They also based their arguments on his age, 25; the fact that he had no record before Celebici; and his voluntary surrender to the tribunal.
Like all guards at Celebici, Landzo acted under the orders of superiors in the camp, his lawyers said.
In a startling development Monday, Landzo even got some support from fellow war crimes suspect Goran Jelisic, who is awaiting trial on separate charges.
Jelisic, who calls himself the ``Serb Adolf,'' took the stand and praised Landzo for keeping his cell clean, giving Jelisic some clothes in jail and playing volleyball with him.
``He's truly a social person, very communicative and a great joker,'' Jelisic said of Landzo.
Prosecutors have said that Serbs held at the central Bosnia camp were ``murdered, tortured, raped and beaten.''
A 49-page indictment alleges that inmates were beaten with steel cables and wooden and metal bars, burned with heated scissors, wrapped with fuses that were then lit, and kept in vats of water.
At least 14 died.
The Celebici trial, which began in March 1997, was expected to last only several months but has dragged on for 19 months, in part because the U.N. court has five other trials in progress.
Taking up sentencing arguments before a trial has ended is part of the tribunal's new efforts to streamline and speed up its work.
Lawyers for the other defendants, as well as prosecutors, were also scheduled to make sentencing arguments this week.
Yugoslav war crimes tribunal investigators plan to return to Kosovo and resume their probe of alleged atrocities in the troubled province, a tribunal official said Wednesday.
Visas that were denied earlier by Yugoslav authorities have now been issued, Deputy Prosecutor Graham Blewitt told a press briefing.
He did not give details on how many investigators will return or when.
Blewitt declined to speculate on the reason behind Belgrade's change of heart, nor could he confirm that Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic has explicitly agreed to total compliance with the U.N. court.
In a statement, Judge Gabrielle Kirk McDonald of the United States, the tribunal's president, welcomed ``in principle'' the recent agreements aimed at averting military intervention.
But McDonald said she had not yet reviewed them to confirm that they contained ``explicit provisions and mechanisms'' aimed at ensuring Belgrade's compliance.
However, U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke, speaking on NBC's ``Today'' program, said cooperation with the tribunal was indeed part of the agreements with Milosevic.
``We had a big argument about the war crimes tribunal,'' Holbrooke said.
``It is embedded in our agreement that he said he will fully comply with the U.N. resolution and that calls for (compliance).''
Holbrooke said Milosevic had agreed to a doubling of war crimes tribunal staff in Belgrade and to letting them travel freely in Kosovo, where the tribunal wants to look into reports of Serb massacres of ethnic Albanian civilians.
The tribunal's chief prosecutor, Louise Arbour of Canada, was at the United Nations on Wednesday to clarify the scope and impact of the agreements as they relate to war crimes issues.
Blewitt said last week that Belgrade officials had suddenly begun claiming that the tribunal has no jurisdiction to conduct investigations in Kosovo.
The tribunal, set up by the United Nations in 1993 to prosecute crimes committed following the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, has always maintained that it also has jurisdiction in the Kosovo conflict.
Until recently, tribunal staff were allowed to carry out investigations in the region, examining reports of atrocities by both sides in the Kosovo conflict.
``Our mandate is quite clear.
It is not subject to negotiations neither by President Milosevic nor Mr. Holbrooke,'' Blewitt said emphatically.
McDonald repeatedly has chastised Belgrade for failing to surrender indicted war suspects at large in Yugoslavia, in particular the handover of three men accused of orchestrating the killings of 260 unarmed people after the fall of Vukovar in 1991.
``The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia continues to flout the law and the will of the international community'' by refusing to turn over indicted suspects, she said in her statement.
The General Assembly voted Friday to select three judges to fill a new trial chamber of the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal, whose caseload could grow with atrocities committed during the Kosovo conflict.
Representatives of the 185-member assembly cast secret ballots, choosing among nine candidates nominated by their home countries.
The three will rule on cases concerning crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia.
Their terms will end Nov. 16, 2001.
None of the original nine candidates emerged from the first round of balloting with the 94 `yes' votes needed for a majority, meaning a second round was required.
Poland and Ecuador withdrew their candidates for the second round, narrowing the field down to seven.
The remaining candidates were Mohamed Bennouna of Morocco, David Anthony Hunt of Australia, Per-Johan Viktor Lindholm of Finland, Hugo Anibal Llanos Mansilla of Chile, Patrick Lipton Robinson of Jamaica, Waldo Bandara Srinihal Wadugodapitiya of Sri Lanka and Peter H. Wilkitzki of Germany.
The tribunal, graf 5 pvs
A delegation of U.N. war crimes investigators and prosecutors plans to visit Kosovo early next month, officials at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal said Wednesday.
The team, led by Chief Prosecutor Louise Arbour of Canada and her deputy, Graham Blewitt of Australia, will investigate reports of massacres and other atrocities in the troubled Yugoslav province.
Gavin Ruxton, a senior legal adviser in Arbour's office, would give no details of the alleged war crimes the team would be investigating.
He confirmed that Arbour would leave for Yugoslavia on Nov. 5, although he added that Yugoslav officials have not yet granted the team visas to visit the region.
Belgrade authorities recently began refusing to issue visas to tribunal investigators planning to visit the province, where Serb forces have been engaged in a seven-month crackdown of secessionist ethnic Albanian rebels.
Handing the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal only its third conviction, a Bosnian Serb Thursday pleaded guilty to 14 murders.
Goran Jelisic, 30, faces a maximum life prison term for the killings.
Because he pleaded innocent to a genocide charge he will still face trial at the U.N. court.
Only then will he be officially convicted of the murders, presiding judge Claude Jorda said.
(MORE)
Three Serbs were wounded after their cars were raked by gunfire from separatist ethnic Albanians, police said Wednesday.
The violence highlighted Kosovo's continuing potential for bloodshed despite last month's peace agreement.
Serb police at a checkpoint near Sipitula, about 15 kilometers (nine miles) west of Pristina, said Albanian guerrillas opened fire on two vehicles from the nearby Belacevac coal mine Tuesday evening.
They said an ensuing gunfight between police and the attackers lasted an hour.
Three miners in the two cars were injured and taken to Pristina hospital, according to police.
The cars, still sitting at the checkpoint Wednesday morning, had several bullet holes or marks in the windshields and chassis.
Villagers said Serb police began shooting at the village at about the same time police said the gunfight began.
The villagers said they fled and spent the night in nearby fields or homes of friends and relatives.
A few who returned Wednesday morning said police routinely attack the village and force them to flee.
In the Netherlands, the chief prosecutor of the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal locked horns with the Yugoslav government over the tribunal's jurisdiction in Kosovo.
Chief Prosecutor Louise Arbour said in The Hague that her court has been given U.N. authority to investigate war crimes in any part of Yugoslavia.
She was responding to assertions by Yugoslav government officials that Kosovo is off limits to tribunal investigations.
Arbour said Yugoslav authorities still not have issued visas for a week-long tribune mission to Belgrade and Kosovo, scheduled to start Friday.
Kosovo is a province of Serbia, the dominant Yugoslav republic.
Ethnic Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's population, overwhelmingly favor independence.
The Oct. 12 agreement, wrested from Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, suspended a nearly eight-month crackdown in the province that left hundreds dead _ most of them Albanian civilians _ and hundreds of thousands others homeless.
While the guerrillas were not part of the agreement, they have grudgingly promised to respect it, if it does not compromise their goal of independence.
Alluding to the police threat to Albanian refugees before the attack, Kosovo's top ethnic Albanian leader said more needs to be done to ensure the safety of refugees going back home.
Ibrahim Rugova spoke Tuesday after venturing into the countryside for the first time in nine years.
``We saw huge destruction, but we met many people who have begun returning,'' he said.
``It's a beginning of the process to return.
But for a more massive return, more safety is needed.''
Rugova saw charred and roofless homes during a tour of central Kosovo.
He accompanied U.S. envoy Christopher Hill, who is trying to persuade the ethnic Albanians to give up their dream of Kosovo's independence from Serbia and settle for some form of self-rule.
As the head of the ethnic Albanians' outlawed government in Kosovo, Rugova has remained almost exclusively in the capital Pristina since Serbia stripped the province's autonomy in 1989 and set up a huge police presence.
Sporadic violence by both sides continues, along with intimidation by Serb police intended to prevent ethnic Albanians from returning home in some areas.
``We have to give them a deeper sense of security as there is still fear for some people to get back home,'' Rugova said.
The Kosovo Information Center _ reflecting views of the Rugova camp _ reported Serb shelling of Petrovo, 30 kilometers (about 20 miles) southwest of Pristina on Wednesday.
Hill, who is trying to set up negotiations between Albanians and Serbs on a political agreement to set up a three-year interim period of self-rule, said a settlement is needed to generate more confidence and stability.
While Yugoslavia maintains it has complied with Western demands to reduce its forces in Kosovo to levels before the crackdown began last February, the Kosovo Liberation Army said Tuesday that more special police and soldiers must go.
On Wednesday, they announced they are holding two politicians from Rugova's party who went missing Oct. 30 in Malisevo, southwest of Pristina.
The two, Jakup Kastrati and Cene Desku, were conducting an anti-KLA campaign and ``coaxed people to turn in their arms,'' said a KLA statement printed in the daily Koha Ditore.
Yugoslavia's state news agency, Tanjug, said two ethnic Albanians were sentenced to two- and three-year prison terms for being weapons-carrying KLA members.
Three Serbs were wounded after their cars were raked by gunfire from separatist ethnic Albanians, police said Wednesday.
The violence highlighted Kosovo's continuing potential for bloodshed despite last month's peace agreement.
Serb police at a checkpoint near Sipitula, about 15 kilometers (nine miles) west of Pristina, said Albanian guerrillas opened fire on two vehicles from the nearby Belacevac coal mine Tuesday evening.
They said an ensuing gunfight between police and the attackers lasted an hour.
Three miners in the two cars were injured and taken to Pristina hospital, according to police.
The cars, still sitting at the checkpoint Wednesday morning, had several bullet holes or marks in the windshields and chassis.
Villagers said Serb police began shooting at the village at about the same time police said the gunfight began.
The villagers said they fled and spent the night in nearby fields or homes of friends and relatives.
A few who returned Wednesday morning said police routinely attack the village and force them to flee.
In the Netherlands, the chief prosecutor of the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal locked horns with the Yugoslav government over the tribunal's jurisdiction in Kosovo.
Chief Prosecutor Louise Arbour said in The Hague that her court has been given U.N. authority to investigate war crimes in any part of Yugoslavia.
She was responding to assertions by Yugoslav government officials that Kosovo is off limits to tribunal investigations.
Arbour said Yugoslav authorities still not have issued visas for a week-long tribune mission to Belgrade and Kosovo, scheduled to start Friday.
Kosovo is a province of Serbia, the dominant Yugoslav republic.
Ethnic Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's population, overwhelmingly favor independence.
The Oct. 12 agreement, wrested from Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, suspended a nearly eight-month crackdown in the province that left hundreds dead _ most of them Albanian civilians _ and hundreds of thousands others homeless.
While the guerrillas were not part of the agreement, they have grudgingly promised to respect it, if it does not compromise their goal of independence.
Alluding to the police threat to Albanian refugees before the attack, Kosovo's top ethnic Albanian leader said more needs to be done to ensure the safety of refugees going back home.
Ibrahim Rugova spoke Tuesday after venturing into the countryside for the first time in nine years.
``We saw huge destruction, but we met many people who have begun returning,'' he said.
``It's a beginning of the process to return.
But for a more massive return, more safety is needed.''
Rugova saw charred and roofless homes during a tour of central Kosovo.
He accompanied U.S. envoy Christopher Hill, who is trying to persuade the ethnic Albanians to give up their dream of Kosovo's independence from Serbia and settle for some form of self-rule.
As the head of the ethnic Albanians' outlawed government in Kosovo, Rugova has remained almost exclusively in the capital Pristina since Serbia stripped the province's autonomy in 1989 and set up a huge police presence.
Sporadic violence by both sides continues, along with intimidation by Serb police intended to prevent ethnic Albanians from returning home in some areas.
``We have to give them a deeper sense of security as there is still fear for some people to get back home,'' Rugova said.
The Kosovo Information Center _ reflecting views of the Rugova camp _ reported Serb shelling of Petrovo, 30 kilometers (about 20 miles) southwest of Pristina on Wednesday.
The Serbian Media Center said ``Albanian terrorists'' attacking Serb police were to blame for the violence at the village.
While Yugoslavia maintains it has complied with Western demands to reduce its forces in Kosovo to levels before the crackdown began last February, the Kosovo Liberation Army said Tuesday that more special police and soldiers must go.
On Wednesday, they announced they are holding two politicians from Rugova's party who went missing Oct. 30 in Malisevo, southwest of Pristina.
The two, Jakup Kastrati and Cene Desku, were conducting an anti-KLA campaign and ``coaxed people to turn in their arms,'' said a KLA statement printed in the daily Koha Ditore.
Yugoslavia's state news agency, Tanjug, said two ethnic Albanians were sentenced to two- and three-year prison terms for being weapons-carrying KLA members.
The president of the U.N. war crimes tribunal angrily branded Yugoslavia a ``rogue state'' Thursday after Belgrade refused to allow investigators to probe alleged atrocities in Kosovo.
Authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia confirmed they would not allow Louise Arbour, chief prosecutor of the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal, and a team of investigators to carry out investigations in the troubled region.
``This conduct is a further example of the FRY's utter disregard for the norms of the international community,'' said tribunal president Gabrielle Kirk McDonald of the United States.
``Essentially, it has become a rogue state, one that holds the international rule of law in contempt,'' she said.
Arbour would not say what her next step would be.
She said her visa request was a matter of courtesy and that she has a legal right to carry out investigations throughout the former Yugoslavia.
Arbour had asked for visas for herself and 11 members of her staff so that they could conduct on-site investigations and interview witnesses.
She vowed to continue investigating ``using all means available to us,'' but did not elaborate.
Hundreds have been killed and hundreds of thousands made homeless in seven months of fighting between Serb forces and secessionist ethnic Albanian rebels in the southern Yugoslav province of Kosovo.
U.N. investigators want to check reports of atrocities on both sides.
Kirk McDonald said she would report the non-issuance of visas to the Security Council, which set up the tribunal in 1993, and urge it to take ``forceful'' action to force Belgrade into line.
``In the final analysis, it is clear to me that I have an obligation, now that the prosecutor has reported non-compliance, to bring this matter to the Security Council,'' Kirk McDonald said.
She said Belgrade's defiance of the tribunal amounted to ``a challenge to the authority of the Security Council'' which has ordered a tribunal investigation of alleged atrocities in Kosovo and told Yugoslav authorities to cooperate.
The visa holdup prompted Kirk McDonald, of Texas, to cancel a planned visit to Belgrade to speak to a conference on war crimes trials.
``This move by the Yugoslav government will have serious legal consequences,'' said Natasa Kandic, chairwoman of the Humanitarian Law Center organizing the conference.
``With it, the Yugoslav government acted directly contrary to the U.N. Security Council Resolution demanding free access to international investigators to Kosovo,'' she said.
``Relations between the tribunal and authorities here have now become strained in the extreme.''
Yugoslavia must cooperate with a U.N. war crimes panel investigating allegations of atrocities in the rebellious Yugoslav province of Kosovo, a U.S. official said Saturday.
``In the U.N. Security Council, there is unanimous consent of all its members that investigators ... have full authority to do their job in Kosovo,'' said David Scheffer, the State Department's war crimes envoy at a panel discussion held in Belgrade.
President Slobodan Milosevic has defied international pressure to allow prosecutors from the Netherlands-based tribunal to enter Kosovo, where hundreds have died in fighting that erupted in Februrary between separatist ethnic Albanians and Yugoslav forces.
Tribunal investigators have said they want to look into claims on atrocities on both sides.
Speaking at the round-table discussion organized by the Belgrade-based nongovernmental Humanitarian Law Center, Scheffer said there were reasons to believe that ``serious violations of international law'' were committed in Kosovo.
Tribunal Chief Prosecutor Louise Arbour and a team of investigators planned a weeklong mission in Kosovo to begin last Wednesday but were refused visas.
Arbour and Scheffer have threatened Yugoslavia with U.N. sanctions if the authorities continue to defy demands for unlimited access.
``Since February this year, between 600 and 1,000 people died in Kosovo, many more were wounded,'' Scheffer said.
The tribunal maintains it has a legal right to carry out investigations throughout Yugoslavia.
The wars in the former Yugoslav republics prompted the Security Council to create the tribunal in 1993 with a mandate to prosecute breaches of international humanitarian law committed anywhere in the former Yugoslavia since 1991.
Kosovo is in southern Serbia, the largest of Yugoslavia's two remaining republics.
A 42-year-old man who says he is the lone survivor of a massacre in which 13 ethnic Albanians were summarily shot and killed in this village in Kosovo recalled Thursday how he was herded into a garden with other men and told to lie flat on the ground.
Heads to the fence, feet toward the house!
Serbian policemen barked, he recounted.
Then, the severely wounded man said as he recounted the tale from his mattress on the floor of his home Thursday, police kicked the prone men with their boots and beat them with the wooden handles of shovels.
``They kept yelling, `Who among you is Kosovo Liberation Army?
If you tell us, we will release everyone else,''' the man recalled of the events of last Saturday.
Then, he said, the shooting started.
First, the man to his right was shot, then two men farther down the row.
And then the whole row from left to right, then down the row again, from right to left.
``After the two shots for each man, they kicked one, and he was alive.''
he said.
``They shot him again.
When they kicked me, I didn't move.''
The survivor, the father of eight children, was advised by Western diplomats who interviewed him on Tuesday and by a researcher for Human Rights Watch who saw him Thursday not to give his name to a reporter for fear of jeopardizing his safety.
The diplomats and the researcher for the New York-based rights organization said the man could suffer reprisals from Serbian policemen who are at checkpoints on the roads and in the hills around the village if he revealed his identity.
But they said that because of the clarity and first-hand nature of the man's evidence, they consider him a key potential witness for a proceeding at the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
The killing of the men and the massacre of 18 members of an Albanian family on the same day in villages about four miles apart in the Drenica region of Kosovo, a province where guerrillas are fighting for independence from Serbia, prompted calls from Western leaders for war-crimes investigations by The Hague tribunal.
Washington called on the government of the Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, to allow impartial forensic experts to visit the sites to determine what happened.
The Milosevic government has denounced the war crimes tribunal and consistently denied access to forensic experts, asserting that there was no need for them because no war crimes had occurred.
Two investigators from the war crimes tribunal who have been in Kosovo for a week were expected to see the survivor Thursday.
But the investigators who got into Kosovo, after long negotiations with the Yugoslavia government for their visas, left for Belgrade, the capital, Thursday without interviewing the survivor or inspecting the site where the Deliaj family was massacred.
A spokesman at The Hague, Jim Landale, said he had no information on why the investigators left before pursuing the two cases.
``We are confirming that we are investigating these incidents,'' he said.
The researcher for Human Rights Watch, Peter Bouckaert, who has experience in interviewing survivors of atrocities in Africa, said after listening to the man's account that the coherence of his story and his lack of exaggeration made him an important witness for the tribunal.
Significantly, he said, details of the story tallied with evidence in the garden of spent bullets from an automatic weapon and pools of blood along the fence.
The executive director of Human Rights Watch, Kenneth Roth, said in New York Thursday that it was troubling that the tribunal had not seized the opportunity to listen to the survivor or inspect the two killing sites.
``This is not a historical inquiry,'' Roth said of the tribunal.
The survivor, who has a shock of black hair and full black mustache, has essentially been a captive in his house since he hobbled the half-mile back home Saturday afternoon.
He is too frightened to go to the hospital even though his leg wound reaches to the bone and gangrene is starting to develop.
His left arm is also wounded from the second bullet.
The International Committee for the Red Cross visited him on Tuesday with some bandages and medicines but has not been back since, he said.
The man described the events leading up to the shootings as the climax of a Serbian attack on the village that began last Friday morning with shelling from across the hills.
Men, women and children fled to the forest and spent the night under the trees.
On Saturday morning, he said, everyone was ordered by Serbian forces to come out of the forest and gather in a field.
The women and children were separated from the men, and then the men were whittled down into a smaller group.
There were about ``30 to 40 police'' doing the sorting of the men, he said.
They wore the blue camouflage uniforms of the Serbian security police, and some had yellow insignia on their shoulders signifying rank, he said.
Some wore black bandannas around their foreheads.
Asked if there was one person in charge, he said: ``I don't know.
They were all speaking.''
Toward the end of the selection, one policeman was making the choices, he said.
The final group of men were ordered to walk about half a mile from the field to a dirt road at a spot just outside the garden of the house where the killings occurred.
They were told to kneel with their heads down to the ground, he said.
They were kept there about two hours, he said.
They were then forced to walk through the wide wooden gate of the garden and lie on their stomachs with their hands held behind their necks.
When the beating with the shovels started, the victims began to scream, he said.
Those who turned their faces to the policemen were beaten much more, he said.
``I was screaming and shouting, but I didn't turn my face, only once.''
The man said that after a while, ``somebody new came to the garden.''
He presumed, he said, that it was the ``new'' policeman who did the firing.
A diplomat who interviewed him on Tuesday said he understood from the man's account that one or more policemen did the shooting.
``We were executed one by one,'' he said.
``Some were begging to be released.
Nobody tried to get up.''
The clatter was that of an automatic weapon, he said.
Suddenly silence fell, he said.
He could hear the policemen leave the garden and then depart the village with a burst of machine-gun fire.
A builder by trade, the man said his brother was one of the 13 who was shot to death.
His brother's body was brought home along the same route he had used to escape.
The survivor's face crumpled slightly when he was asked if he would testify at The Hague.
He was most afraid, he said, for the safety of his wife and children, who would most likely become targets of Serbian revenge.
Four employees of Grange Telecom, a British telecommunications company, were found murdered following a failed rescue attempt by Chechen authorities.
The men had been decapitated.
The men, Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealander Stanley Shaw, were abducted during a shootout in October which also resulted in the wounding of several bodyguards.
The men were in Chechnya working on installing telecommunications equipment for the Chechen government.
Despite warnings from the British government about the dangers of traveling in Chechnya, the company felt the risk to its workers was low because the men were working for the Chechen government.
Three British and one New Zealand telecom workers were kidnapped after a shootout between their bodyguards and the attackers.
One bodyguard and an unknown number of attackers were wounded in the abduction in the breakaway Chechnya region.
Kidnapping, generally for ransom, has become a growth industry for Chechen rebels with 176 abducted  this year.
Most kidnappings are for ransom and 90 of the victims have been released.
The four foreigners were not so fortunate; their severed heads were found two months later after a lengthy search.
Chechen authorities called the deaths a major blow to efforts for independence and blamed "outside forces" and their Chechen henchmen.
Unknown Chechen gunmen abducted three Britons and one New Zealander, all  employees of a British telephone company in the capitol city of Grozny in  Chechnya.
The British Foreign Office said it had warned the company to  withdraw from Chechnya.
More than 100 people are being held captive in  Chechnya and anti-kidnapping officials have become victims of apparent  hostage takers.
Some two months after the kidnapping, Chechen officials  reported finding the severed heads of the four kidnapped men near a small  village west of Grozny.
The Chechen president said the bodies of the four  men were recovered but there was no further comment.
At 4am October 3, 1998, gunmen abducted Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey,  Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealander Stanley Shaw from their house in Chechnya.
They worked for British firm Granger Telecom installing a telecommunications  system.
Britain had advised citizens to avoid Chechnya but the Chechen  government guaranteed Granger worker safety.
Employees went voluntarily.
No  ransom demand was received.
Chechnya's mountains were thoroughly searched.
A captured kidnapper revealed the hostages' locations.
A rescue attempt was  mounted but failed.
Two months after abduction the hostages' bodies and severed  heads were found.
The deaths damaged international recognition of Chechnya's  independence.
Many factions were suspected of the kidnappings but no sure blame  assigned.
Unknown gunmen abducted three Britons and a New Zealand citizen in Russia's breakaway Chechnya region after a shootout with their bodyguards, a regional official said Sunday.
The four men, who were in Chechnya to install a cellular phone system, were taken hostage Saturday after 20 men in camouflage attacked the house where they lived in the Chechen capital Grozny, said Shadid Bargishev, head of the regional anti-kidnapping department.
The British Foreign Office initially said the four were seized early Sunday morning, but later said the kidnapping had taken place at 4 a.m. Saturday.
It appealed to Russian authorities ``for their cooperation for the safe and early return of the men.''
One bodyguard and an unknown number of attackers were wounded in the fire fight, the Interfax news agency said.
Police were searching regional hospitals for anyone coming in with gunshot wounds.
The British Embassy in Moscow identified the four hostages as Britons Peter William Kennedy, Darren Eamonn Hickey, and Rudolf Franz-Joseph Petschi, and Stanley Frederick James Shaw of New Zealand.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British firm based in Waybridge, Surrey, that has been working with the Chechen telecommunications company, an embassy spokesman said.
The kidnappers have not set conditions for the men's release, the spokesman said.
The kidnapping took place only 500 meters (550 yards) from the anti-kidnapping department, Interfax said.
Policemen heard the shots, but didn't react because gunfire is frequent in the evening in Grozny, the report said.
``Despite the fact that the government of Britain did not recommend that its citizens visit Chechnya, these four came and did not inform anybody about their presence, not even law enforcement bodies,'' Bargishev said.
The British Foreign Office said that Britons have been advised not to go to Chechnya for the last 4 1/2 years.
The incident ``will seriously slow down the plan for Chechnya's revival,'' said Leon Wascinski, head of the Chechen mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, according to Interfax.
The kidnappers ``whoever they are, are acting in defiance of the interests of the Chechen people and are doing so deliberately,'' he said.
The kidnapping came just two weeks after Chechen warlords released two British charity workers, ending the pair's 14 months of captivity in the turbulent republic in Russia's northern Caucasus region.
Hundreds of Russian and foreign citizens have been abducted by gangs seeking ransom since the 1994-1996 independence war with Russia, and dozens remain held.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov's government has been unable to stem kidnappings that have become a steady business for some criminal gangs.
Chechnya considers itself independent and has been running its own affairs since Russian troops left two years ago.
Moscow says that Chechnya remains part of Russia but has no control over its affairs.
(pvs/lon/ji)
A Foreign Office minister said Monday that the British phone company whose four employees were kidnapped in Chechnya at the weekend was specifically warned to withdraw from Russia's breakaway region, but ignored the advice.
``The advice could not have been clearer, the risks were known to the company and to the employees,'' said Foreign Office Minister Derek Fatchett in a British Broadcasting Corp. radio interview.
``The fact that they ignored that advice is a decision they took themselves and is their responsibility ... It's a mature world and people have to take mature decisions.''
The company, Granger Telecom, said it knew Chechnya was probably the world's most dangerous place for kidnapping but thought its staff would be well-protected because they were working on a government contract to install a telecommunications system.
Three of the kidnaped men, Britons Darren Hickey and Rudolph Petschi and New Zealander Stanley Shaw, worked for Granger.
The British company said the fourth hostage, Briton Peter Kennedy, may have been employed directly by Chechen Telecom, which has offered a reward for information about the kidnapping.
The men were seized early Saturday after a shoot-out with their bodyguards.
There was no word on any ransom demand for the four men.
``We had a general advice from the Foreign Office about visits to Chechnya but no specific advice about us,'' Granger Telecom chief executive Ray Verth told the BBC.
Verth, who has now suspended operations in Chechnya, said the company had considered the contract, worth several million dollars, justified the risk.
The company was 12 months into a five-year contract to install 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
Hickey had been in the region since early August and was due back in Britain this week, said Verth.
Shaw had been in Chechnya only a week and Petschi for 2 1/2 weeks.
``None of our employees were forced to go, they voluntarily went _ they knew the risks,'' said Verth.
``We understood and believed they were well catered for because we were contracted with the Chechen government and Chechen Telecom, who guaranteed our safety, which obviously has not occurred.''
Fatchett said Britain would do all it could to get the men released.
Hickey's sister said Monday his family is devastated.
``He was just out there doing a job to help the country get their communications back,'' said a tearful Deborah Hickey, 21.
Hickey, who is single and lives with his parents at Thames Ditton, south of London, had been to Chechnya twice before, she said, ``and he thought there was no danger at all,'' despite having heard gunfire on a previous trip _ ``he said that was part of it.''
She did not blame Granger.
``Darren is old enough to make his own decision to go out there or not,'' she said.
The Russian news agency ITAR-Tass on Monday quoted Magomed Magomadov, Chechen deputy procurator-general, as saying one of the kidnappers was wounded and received treatment at the district hospital in Urus-Martan.
The men were seized just two weeks after Chechen warlords released two British charity workers who had been held for 14 months.
London's Guardian newspaper said Monday that the latest kidnappings ``cast fresh doubt on Foreign Office claims to have paid no ransom'' to secure the release of the charity workers.
The British Embassy in Moscow has received no direct information about three Britons and a New Zealander kidnapped in breakaway Chechnya nearly two weeks ago, an embassy official said Wednesday.
No ransom demands have been made for the hostages, said an embassy spokeswoman, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity.
The hostages _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were kidnapped on Oct. 3.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British telephone company, installing 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
Chechnya's security forces launched a 10-day crackdown last week, seeking to capture rebel armed groups and possibly find leads to the hostages.
A particularly thorough search was being conducted in Chechnya's mountainous regions, where hostages are usually held.
No trace of the Britons and the New Zealander have been found, Chechen officials have said.
Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common in Chechnya since the end of its two-year war for independence from Russia in 1996.
Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in the North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of foreigners, and 90 of them released, officials have said, according to the Interfax news agency.
Another high-profile hostage, Russian presidential envoy Valentin Vlasov, who was kidnapped on May 1, remains missing.
(ad/ls)
A bomb exploded in a car carrying a senior Muslim cleric in breakaway Chechnya on Thursday, but he was not hurt, Russian news agencies reported.
Mufti Akhmad Khadzhi Kadirov was approaching his home in the Chechen capital of Grozny when the bomb went off under his Mercedes 600, wounding his driver, ITAR-Tass and Interfax reported.
Kadirov and his bodyguard managed to scramble out of the burning car after the blast, which also destroyed a small building and blew out windows nearby.
The attack came one day after a similar car bomb killed Chechnya's top anti-kidnapping official, Shadid Bargishev.
Anti-kidnapping officials blamed the attack on Bargishev's promise to launch an all-out offensive against hostage-takers, and his recent success in securing the release of several captives, including a British couple and 24 Russian soldiers.
``The accident is a result of the work of the (anti-kidnapping) department,'' said Husein Zabrailov, an investigator who worked with Bargishev.
Chechnya's first deputy security minister, Abu Movsayev, said that the Russian military may have been behind the killing.
Bargishev had recently challenged a claim by the Russian prosecutor general's office that it had freed the Russian servicemen from captivity, Movsayev said.
Meanwhile, the Interior Ministry in the southern Russian region of Dagestan offered Monday to help combat hostage-taking in neighboring Chechnya after the attack on Bargishev, ITAR-Tass said, citing the ministry's press center.
Chechnya, where rebels fought a bloody independence war against Russia in 1994-96, conducts its own affairs and has seen a sharp rise in violent crime and hostage-taking, usually by criminal gangs for ransom.
Dagestan suffers from its own ethnic conflicts, and has also been hit by spillover violence and kidnappings by armed gangs in Chechnya.
More than 100 people are still being held captive in Chechnya, including three Britons, a New Zealander and a Turk, according to Interfax.
(pvs/nw/ls)
Chechen officials said the bodies of four kidnapped foreigners had been found Tuesday near a remote village.
But an Associated Press reporter saw four severed heads near the village of Assinovskaya, about 40 kms (25 miles) west of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
The heads were identified as those of the four foreigners by Umar Makhauri, who had been a bodyguard assigned to the four when they were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in Grozny.
He said the bodies had not been found.
One New Zealand and three British engineers were kidnapped.
Chechen government officials at the scene refused to comment.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said the bodies of four men had been recovered.
There was no immediate explanation for the discrepencies.
Kidnapping of foreigners for ransom is rampant in Chechnya, a lawless region in southern Russia.
But victims are rarely killed.
Chechen authorities found the remains of four kidnapped foreigners Tuesday near a remote village in the breakaway region in southern Russia.
An Associated Press reporter saw four severed heads near the village of Assinovskaya, about 40 kms (25 miles) west of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
There was no sign of any bodies.
The heads were identified as those of the four foreigners by Umar Makhauri, who had been a bodyguard assigned to the four when they were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in Grozny.
He said the bodies had not been found.
Chechen government officials at the scene refused to comment.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said the bodies of four men had been recovered, but gave no further details.
The hostages _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were kidnapped on Oct. 3.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British telephone company, installing 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
Chechen authorities had been searching for the missing men for the past two months.
British officials said they had not received any ransom demand for the missing men.
Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common in Chechnya since the end of the breakaway republic's two-year war for independence from Russia in 1996.
But victims are rarely killed.
Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in the North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of foreigners, and 90 of them released, officials have said.
Chechen authorities found the remains of four kidnapped foreigners Tuesday near a remote village in the breakaway region in southern Russia.
An Associated Press reporter saw four severed heads near the village of Assinovskaya, about 40 kms (25 miles) west of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
There was no sign of any bodies.
The heads were identified as those of the four foreigners by Umar Makhauri, who had been a bodyguard assigned to the four when they were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in Grozny.
He said the bodies had not been found.
Chechen government officials at the scene refused to comment.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said the bodies of four men had been recovered, but gave no further details.
The hostages _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were kidnapped on Oct. 3.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British telephone company, installing 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
Chechen authorities had been searching for the missing men for the past two months.
British officials said they had not received any ransom demand for the missing men.
Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common in Chechnya since the end of the breakaway republic's two-year war for independence from Russia in 1996.
But victims are rarely killed.
Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in the North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of foreigners, and 90 of them released, officials have said.
Chechen authorities found the decapitated heads of four kidnapped foreigners Tuesday near a remote village after a two-month search in the breakaway region in southern Russia.
An Associated Press reporter saw the severed heads near the village of Assinovskaya, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) west of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
He did not see any sign of the bodies.
The heads were identified as those of the four abducted foreigners by Umar Makhauri, who had been a bodyguard assigned to the four when they were abducted Oct. 3 by unidentified gunmen in Grozny.
He said the bodies had not been found.
But Chechen government officials at the scene said four bodies had been found without giving further details.
Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov said in Grozny that the bodies of four men had been recovered.
The hostages _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were engineers.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British telephone company, installing 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
Maskhadov said Chechen officials had caught one of the captors Monday and he told police where the hostages were being held.
But that information reached the other captors, who decided to kill their captives, the ITAR-Tass news agency quoted Maskhadov as saying.
The chief executive of Granger Telecom, Ray Verth, said Tuesday that Chechen authorities had mounted a rescue attempt Monday night that went ``tragically wrong.''
No other details were available.
He said the company had ``opened a dialogue with the kidnappers and received confirmation that the hostages were alive as recently as last week.''
``Their murder is an appalling and barbaric act and our thoughts go out to the families to whom we offer our deepest condolences.
We are a small tightly-knit company and everyone here is in a state of shock,'' Verth said outside company headquarters in Weybridge, south of London, where flags were flying at half-mast.
Spokesmen at the British and New Zealand embassies in Moscow said they were checking on reports the four men had been killed, but could not comment.
The British Foreign Ministry in London said it was investigating urgently reports that bodies had been found.
Chechen acting First Vice Premier Turpal Atgeriyev, who is heading the investigation into the killings, said authorities had several suspects in the abduction, but have failed to make any progress, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency.
Eamon Hickey, the father of one of the missing men, said he heard the news and was hoping it would not be confirmed.
``There is so much rumor and counter-rumor coming from out there that we don't know what to think.
Obviously we are hoping and praying that it does not turn out to be true,'' he said at his home in England.
Chechen authorities had been searching for the missing men for the past two months.
British officials said they had not received any ransom demand for the missing men.
Maskhadov said the deaths of the four men were a major blow to Chechnya and its efforts to gain international recognition of its independence.
He blamed the rash of abductions in Chechnya to unidentified ``outside forces'' and their Chechen henchmen.
``I am ready to answer before my people and the whole world for what happened,'' he was quoted as saying by the Interfax news agency.
Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common in Chechnya since the end of the breakaway republic's two-year war for independence from Russia in 1996.
But victims are rarely killed.
Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in the North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of foreigners, and 90 of them released, officials have said.
The severed heads of four kidnapping victims _ identified as three Britons and a New Zealander _ were found Tuesday on the side of a road in Chechnya, the breakaway region on Russia's southern border that emerged undefeated from a brutal war two years ago only to be engulfed by a wave of kidnappings and crime.
The gruesome killings heightened alarm and outrage about the volatile situation in the region, which spun out of Moscow's control long ago.
Until now, local kidnappers have usually kept their hostages alive in hopes of receiving ransom money, which has become a major source of income in an economy devastated by Russia's 21-month war against Chechen secessionists.
Although the corpses have not yet been found, Chechen officials said Tuesday that they had been able to identify the victims as four employees of a British telecommunications company.
They were kidnapped from their house in the Chechen capital, Grozny, by two dozen armed men on Oct. 3, after a shootout with their bodyguards.
The British government, in a statement Tuesday night condemning the ``repugnant murders,'' said it was awaiting final confirmation of the victims' identity.
``It is a horrifying crime, committed against the international community,'' said Manolis Chikhkiyev, an aide to Ruslan Aushev, president of Ingushetia, a region that borders Chechnya.
``Ordinary criminals wouldn't kill their hostages, which means that this situation is much deeper and more complex.''
An estimated 100 kidnap victims _ including several foreigners, as well as Russian servicemen _ are still being held in Chechnya and neighboring regions in the northern Caucasus.
In neighboring Dagestan, kidnappers seized Herbert Gregg, an American teacher, on Nov. 12 as he was leaving a local orphanage.
His whereabouts are unknown.
In recent months, the Chechen government has mounted a new campaign to crack down on the kidnapping gangs, an effort that was set back in October by a car bomb that killed the leader of its special anti-terrorist squad.
The Chechen president, Aslan Maskhadov, has accused his political opposition and ``foreign agents'' of using kidnapping as a weapon in its campaign to unseat him.
But the crime wave is also attributed to competing local chieftans, Muslim extremists and other groups that have been feeding off the lawlessness and anarchy that has swept the region.
Last October, a Russian official, Akmal Saidov, was found strangled to death several days after he had been abducted.
The motive was judged to be political after a note signed by the ``wolves of Islam'' was reportedly found on his body, vowing death to those who work for the Russian secret service.
Fear of kidnapping has left Chechnya isolated from the rest of the world, as journalists, aid workers and foreign investors keep a wary distance from a region now so impoverished that according to one local resident, some people are reduced to a diet of animal feed.
Yelena Masyuk, one of three Russian television journalist kidnapped and then released last year after payment of $2 million in ransom, said at an international conference last May that the kidnappings had cost Chechnya the sympathy it had won when Russian troops were bombing its capital and killing its civilians.
``Chechens made $16 million on journalists last year, but they lost much more,'' she said.
``They lost the journalists' confidence that they had had during the war.''
The result, she said, was ``an information blockade'' against the region and its 1 million inhabitants.
In the meantime, the Russian government, while refusing to recognize Chechen independence, has virtually no authority in the region, and has dispersed little of the money it pledged for postwar reconstruction.
There have been successes in the war against the kidnappers _ such as the release last month of President Boris Yeltsin's personal envoy to the region, Valentin Vlasov, after six months of captivity.
In the last two months, 55 Russian servicemen who had been held captive have been returned to Moscow.
And in September, a pair of British aid workers were flown back to England, where they told harrowing tales of abuse by their captors.
Most released hostages have reported that their captors were careful to keep them alive, if barely, so as to be able to collect their reward.
One hostage, released this year after several months of captivity and speaking on condition of anonymity, described being held in cold, wet basements, wearing the same set of clothes until they rotted on his body.
Masked guards would deliver meager food rations at irregular intervals, and periodically move their prisoners to different locations, always at night.
In his case, the motive for the kidnapping was clear.
``Their goal was only money,'' he said, ``and they don't hide this.''
But even the hostage releases have only added fuel to the politically charged atmosphere in the region, as competing groups accuse each other of getting rich on the ransoms.
Last month, Maskhadov accused a Russian financier, Boris Berezovsky, of fueling the kidnapping industry by paying out huge ransoms.
Berezovsky _ who has played an open role in negotiating the release of a number of hostages _ has routinely denied the charges, although he has said he provided humanitarian assistance, computers and textbooks to Chechnya in an effort to secure good will.
``I tried to do everything possible on my side to stop this mess,'' he said Tuesday.
``Until this case, we were lucky.''
Russian Interior Ministry officials have insisted that Vlasov was released after a special operation mounted with the aid of troops from Ingushetia, without the participation of any Chechen forces.
However, Chechen officials contend that in this case, too, a ransom was paid.
``Money has been paid in every case,'' said Sharip Yusupov, a Chechen living in Moscow, who for five years was Chechnya's representative in the Russian capital.
Yusupov said he thought the brazen killing of the four telecommunications specialists was a sign that the kidnappers no longer expect to get ransom money from Russian officials.
``The kidnapping industry is no longer profitable,'' he said, ``which left these people without a `master.'
They were caught in a squeeze.''
According to another theory, the kidnappers may have killed their victims because they feared they were about to be caught.
Maskhadov, at a news conference in Grozny Tuesday, said that a captured suspect had begun to give information last week about the location of the kidnappers.
In London, a spokesman for Granger Telecom, the British company that employed the men, said they had had word last week that the hostages were safe.
South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established to clear the air after the ugly apartheid struggle.
Retired Archbishop Tutu headed the Commission.
It worked two plus years, holding countrywide meetings.
It was controversial from the start.
Commission leaks prompted de Klerk, the last white President, to threaten a court challenge 	The final 3,500-page report was issued on 29 October 1998.
The white majority received the greater blame for rights violations, but the black ANC was also cited.
De Klerk's name did not appear in the report.
Botha, the Inkatha Party, the ruling ANC, and Winnie Mandela were specifically cited.
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, headed by Bishop Desmond Tutu, has  issued its report on human rights violations in South Africa during apartheid.
The report, which covers the years from 1960 to 1994, lays a major portion of the  blame on the ruling South African government during the period.
All political  parties, especially the African National Congress, also were accused of involvement  in human rights violations.
Former President de Klerk, who began the process to end  apartheid in South Africa, was successful in having his name suppressed in the  report.
The African National Council also was considering bringing suit to have  details of its role suppressed.
The South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, chaired by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, completed a lengthy study of human rights violations, including torture and murder, in that country, 1960-1994.
The apartheid government was the most culpable but the African National Congress also had a share of the blame.
The "truth" part of the report was the easiest: it listed crimes and named names, including former president Botha, Inkatha leader Buthelezi, and even Winnie Mandela.
Information implicating former president de Klerk was withheld.
Reconciliation promised to be more difficult.
Amnesty was proposed for those who came forward (perhaps within a given period), confessed, and requested amnesty.
A South African panel probing the apartheid-era abuses is releasing its final  report following a 2-year investigation.
The panel,  the Truth and Reconciliation  Commission (ARC), found that most violations of human rights were through government  security and law enforcement agencies.
However, the panel has also accused the African  National Congress (ANC) of human rights violations.
The last apartheid president, F. W.  de Klerk, will not be implicated in the rights violations after threatening a court  challenge.
The goal of the ARC is to create an idealistic reconciliation of all citizens  through amnesty rather than hold politically divisive trials.
Torturers and bombers who carried out atrocities defending or fighting apartheid need counseling to ensure they do not repeat their crimes, an expert for South Africa's reconciliation body said Thursday.
Addressing local and international experts, Charles Villa-Vicencio, research head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, said ignoring the psychological needs of those who carried out human rights abuses could alienate a potentially dangerous sector of society.
``We must give attention to the healing of perpetrators, not just for the sake of perpetrators, but for the sake of the nation as a whole,'' he said.
The conference, organized by the Medical Research Council, is examining mental health issues raised by the Truth Commission, which is charged with probing crimes committed by all sides in the anti-apartheid struggle.
As the commission prepares to hand over its final report at the end of the month, South Africans are examining its painful and traumatic exploration of their bloody past.
With the power to grant amnesty to many who tortured, bombed or maimed innocent civilians, the process has at some stage angered people in nearly all walks of life.
Many whites see the panel as favoring the black liberation movements, while many blacks accuse it of being too soft on former state officials, especially top ranking ministers.
However, Villa-Vicencio appealed for tolerance in dealing with all those who have committed crimes, saying that the potential for wrongdoing existed in everyone.
``We all, the entire human race, carry with us the capacity for evil,'' he said.
Many of Thursday's speakers touched on the figure of police death squad leader Eugene de Kock, who was given jail terms totaling more than 200 years after a killing spree that costs dozens of lives.
De Kock has applied for amnesty for his crimes.
Dan Stein, a specialist in neurobiology and stress disorders, said de Kock typified many killers from all sides in the conflict by his sheer ``banality of evil''.
``Many people have found him in interviews to be an ordinary, even likeable person,'' he said about the man whom subordinates dubbed ``Prime Evil.''
Ginn Fourie, a physiotherapist whose student daughter was gunned down by black activists in a 1993 attack on a Cape Town bar, said it was necessary to help those whose circumstances compelled them to do wrong.
Struggling to control her tears, Fourie told delegates she had attended the amnesty hearings of her daughter's killers and supported their successful bid to be freed from long jail sentences.
After describing how she hugged the three members of the black nationalist Pan-Africanist Congress and urged them to seek counseling together with their victims, Fourie earned a standing ovation from the 50-strong audience.
``We must take the initiative in understanding others and start the process of reconciliation and healing our broken land,'' she said, her voice shaking with emotion.
(ph/djw)
A panel probing apartheid-era abuses has accused the African National Congress of human rights violations, including torture and bomb attacks, the state broadcaster said Monday.
The ANC, which led the struggle against white rule and now is in power, previously has acknowledged it was told to expect implication in right violations.
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission will release its final report on 2 1-2 years of investigation on Thursday.
The report was expected to place overwhelming blame for the era's abuses on white governments and their brutal security services.
President Nelson Mandela's office received an advance copy on Monday ahead of the handover ceremony, when retired Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who chaired the comission, will present Mandela with the report.
South African Broadcasting Corp. radio said it had been leaked a ``preliminary document'' which condemns the ANC as politically and morally responsible for gross human rights violations during and after the fall of apartheid.
An ANC spokesman, Thabo Masebe, said he believed the news report referred to a commission letter sent in advance ``informing us of its intention to implicate the ANC in gross human rights violations.''
Commission officials could not immediately be reached for comment.
Justice Minister Dullah Omar told journalists in Pretoria he had heard the news report, but would not comment.
Former President F.W. de Klerk, meanwhile, plans to ask a court to prevent the Truth Commission report from implicating him in covering up state-sponsored terror.
``Obviously we will comply with the ruling of a court,'' Omar said, but added he would ``regret'' any court-ordered delay.
The ANC was nervous enough about the report to request a meeting with commissioners earlier this month.
The panel refused, to avoid appearing embarrassed.
The party says the accusations against it likely would center on the planting of land mines on border farms, abuses at its military camps in Angola and bombings.
Omar said he expected the report's conclusions to set off debate but added it would ``lay the basis for reconciliation.''
(djw)
The institution exploring apartheid's horrors will issue a report that finds the African National Congress shares blame for human rights violations as it struggled to overcome white rule.
The 3,500-page report by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission culminates more than two years of nationwide hearings.
South African media released preliminary findings on Monday, three days before its official release on Thursday in Pretoria, the capital.
The release of the document is a milestone in South Africa's transformation from white minority rule to democracy.
The commission, which has the power to grant amnesty, was tasked with promoting reconciliation by laying bare the what and why of apartheid-era atrocities.
With the ANC now in power and facing an election in mid-1999, a condemnation by the commission could prove damaging both to its electoral chances and moral standing.
There has been no doubt that the report's overwhelming blame would be laid on white governments and their security forces during the years under scrutiny, 1960-1994.
Indeed, news reports Monday said the Truth Commission would declare apartheid a crime against humanity and acknowledge that the ANC and the more radical Pan Africanist Congress were conducting a legitimate struggle against the former apartheid state.
But in preliminary findings sent to the parties last month, the commission also said the two movements were ``morally and politically accountable'' for gross rights violations, South African Press Association and South African Broadcasting Corp. said.
The preliminary finding said that despite ANC policy against killing civilians, the line between military and civilian targets had been blurred, SAPA said.
It condemned the planting of landmines in rural areas, the execution of enemy agents, torture and mistreatment of ANC members in its exile camps and for killing political opponents.
It said the party must accept responsibility for the activities of ANC Women's League president Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Nelson Mandela's former wife, and her Mandela United Football Club, accused of killings, torture and kidnappings.
The commission also said the PAC was guilty of the deaths of civilians in its strategy in 1993 to drive white farmers off their land so it could be reclaimed by blacks.
Justice Minister Dullah Omar, meeting journalists in Pretoria, would not comment on the news reports about condemnation of the ANC.
``I do expect various responses (to the report).
I do not expect everyone to agree.
It will lead to healthy debate,'' he said.
He said that if the commissioners recommends prosecutions against anyone for abuses, it will be up to the national director of prosecutions to decide whether to proceed.
The director is appointed by the government.
The commission's work is designed ``to help us establish the rule of law in South Africa, and to establish the principle of accountability,'' Omar said.
The ANC already has prepared the ground for a negative finding, saying weeks ago that the commission had warned that harsh judgments were in the offing.
The ANC was nervous enough about the report to request a meeting with commissioners earlier this month.
The panel refused, to avoid appearing biased.
On Monday, it rejected ``with contempt'' suggestions ANC officials themselves had leaked the findings.
Constand Viljoen, leader of the tiny right-wing Freedom Front, said the ANC had done so to give the commission credibility by making it more even-handed.
Publicly, the party has long defended its actions as those committed during a ``just war.''
F.W. de Klerk, the last apartheid-era president, meanwhile, planned to ask 	a court to prevent the Truth Commission report from implicating him in covering up state-sponsored terror.
``Obviously we will comply with the ruling of a court,'' Omar said, but added he would ``regret'' any court-ordered delay.
(djw-aos)
A panel investigating apartheid-era atrocities said Wednesday it will not implicate the last apartheid president, F.W. de Klerk, in human rights abuses after he threatened a court challenge.
De Klerk said he would sue to block the long-awaited final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which was due for release Thursday.
The man who helped negotiate the end of apartheid objected to a finding by the commission that he was ``an accessory after the fact'' to bombings in the 1980s of the headquarters of a church group and of a labor federation.
Former Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the truth panel's chairman, said the commission needed time to prepare to fight the legal challenge, and would ``excise'' de Klerk's name from the report to avoid delaying its release.
``It upsets me deeply,'' Tutu said.
``We have been scrupulously fair to Mr. de Klerk and we reject the contention that we have been engaged in a vendetta against him.
``But we must and will respect the courts and his rights under the constitution.
We fought hard for those rights and we can be proud in South Africa that Mr. de Klerk now shares in them,'' he said in a statement.
``All we are doing is postponing dealing with the matter,'' Tutu later told The Associated Press.
``The name will eventually appear after all the hoo-ha has died down.''
De Klerk, reached in London, said he could not comment before speaking with his lawyers because the matter was in the courts.
The commission was charged with promoting reconciliation by laying bare apartheid's horrors.
It has held hearings around the country for more than two years, listening to victims and perpetrators seeking amnesty.
The release of the 3,500-page report represents a milestone for South Africa's transformation from white minority rule to democracy.
De Klerk's challenge was only part of the storm of criticism prompted by leaks of the report.
The African National Congress, the liberation movement that helped defeat apartheid and now runs the country, on Tuesday angrily rejected a finding that it too was guilty of human rights violations in its armed struggle.
The report will be a broad and detailed summary of South Africa's human rights history, from 1960 to 1994, when all-race elections ended white minority rule.
It will parcel out moral condemnations and recommend individual prosecutions.
Other threatened legal challenges have led to fewer individuals being named as rights violators than planned, The Star of Johannesburg reported Wednesday.
In commenting on the newspaper report, Tutu said that more than 400 people had been notified they would be implicated to give them a chance to respond.
Only 15 successfully argued themselves out of the report, he said.
&UR; The report also, 13th graf 13 pvs
President Nelson Mandela acknowledged Saturday the African National Congress violated human rights during apartheid, setting him at odds with his deputy president over a report that has divided much of South Africa.
The disagreement stems from Thursday's release of the report by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission on horrors committed during apartheid.
Rather than act as a salve and an aid to reconciliation, the report has caused divisiveness, even among former comrades-in-arms who fought apartheid.
As expected, the report called apartheid a ``crime against humanity.''
But it also blamed the ANC for gross human rights violations during its anti-apartheid struggle, saying the group tortured suspected spies and dissidents and killed innocent civilians with land mines and bombs.
Some suspected traitors were killed in the ANC's camps abroad.
Mbeki _ who became ANC president last year and will likely be elected South Africa's next president in 1999 when Mandela retires _ took a hard line Saturday against the report, and indicated all ANC members must do the same.
&UR; ``No member, 5th graf, 1st Ld-Writethru
Facing a court challenge, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission said Wednesday that it would withhold, at least temporarily, the parts of its final report that implicate South Africa's last apartheid-era president, F.W. de Klerk, in illegal acts.
De Klerk, 62, who helped negotiate the end of South Africa's white supremacist government and shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with President Nelson Mandela for that work, had objected to a finding by the commission that he was ``an accessory after the fact'' in the bombings of the headquarters of a church group and of a labor federation in the 1980s.
The chairman of the 17-member panel, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, said that although he took such action with ``great reluctance,'' the commission needed time to prepare to fight the legal challenge.
He said it would take de Klerk's name out of 3,500-page report to avoid delaying its release Thursday.
``It upsets me deeply,'' he said in a statement.
``We have been scrupulously fair to de Klerk, and we reject the contention that we have been engaged in a vendetta against him.''
De Klerk's challenge was only part of the storm of criticism prompted by leaks about the report in the last few days.
Within hours of the commission decision to withdraw its findings on de Klerk, it was facing the possibility of a new suit _ this time from the ruling African National Congress.
The ANC also wants to block the commission findings about its conduct during the liberation struggle.
A spokesman for the party, Thabo Masebe, said the party would seek an injunction in the morning before the report is officially handed over to Mandela.
While the commission's report is expected to lay overwhelming blame on the former white government for atrocities, it has also found the ANC responsible for human-rights violations, including the torture and killing of spying suspects, bombings in civilian areas and the killing of political enemies, including members of the rival Zulu-based Inkhata Freedom Party.
The decision on de Klerk seems certain to damage the commission's credibility.
The panel, created as a way of putting South Africa's brutal past to rest without the expense and political divisiveness of trials, has caused controversy from the start.
It has held more than 160 hearings throughout the country, listening to both victims and to perpetrators seeking amnesty.
But many whites say the commission is on a witch hunt aiming to humiliate former government officials and Afrikaners in general.
De Klerk has once before forced the commission officials to court and won an apology from them for calling him a liar.
Some political analysts said Wednesday's events would only further the belief that the panel lacks impartiality.
``The withdrawal of the findings can't help but be seen as a lack of certainty on their side,'' said Sampie Terreblanche, an economist and political analyst at the University of Stellenbosch, who has supported the commission.
``Whether we like it or not, the whole report gets a knock from this.''
De Klerk's spokesman, David Steward, said the former president ``was very confident'' that he would win when the case goes to trial in March.
``He is very happy to be in the courts now rather than dealing with the Truth Commission,'' Steward said.
``The fact that they agreed to withdraw creates the definite impression that they specifically concocted a case to involve Mr. de Klerk in a negative finding.''
The ANC has accused the commission of trying to ``criminalize'' the liberation struggle.
``Whatever the efforts to besmirch our struggle by denouncing it as a gross violation of human rights,'' the congress said in a statement.
``The ANC and the millions of people who were part of this struggle will always be proud of what they did to insure that, in the process of the destruction of a vile system, they did not themselves resort to vile methods of struggle on the basis that the means justified the end.''
There are probably few subjects that get South Africans more excited than the issue of the Truth Commission and whether it is a worthy cause or a waste of money.
The events of the last few days have only added to the debate.
For some, like Pal Martins, 34, a former member of the ANC's armed wing, the fact all sides of the political spectrum are in an uproar is a good thing.
``The mere fact that everyone is complaining means that the Truth Commission has done its work,'' he said.
But others say that too many questions are being raised about the panel's competence.
``The whole affair is beyond the pale, a mockery of justice,'' said Roboy Vonholdt, a 56-year-old sheep and ostrich farmer who believes that the commission has been a theatrical act.
``We should all turn our backs on the past and move forward.
We need them and they need us.
Let's all make money and let good economic conditions prevail.''
The commission's report is supposed to be a broad and detailed summary of South Africa's human rights history, from 1960 to 1994, when elections open to all races ended white minority rule.
It will parcel out moral condemnations and recommend individual prosecutions.
While de Klerk was alone in court Wednesday challenging the commission, Tutu said Wednesday that other threatened legal challenges had led to fewer individuals being named as rights violators than originally planned.
Tutu said that more than 400 people had been notified that they would be implicated to give them a chance to respond.
Some 15 successfully argued themselves out of the report or could not be reached and were therefore deleted from the report, he said.
The commission is required by law to give advance notification to anyone it intends to implicate in its report.
The commission had been expected to say that although de Klerk did not order the bombings, he subsequently came to know that former Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Police Commissioner Johan van der Merwe had been involved, but failed to report his knowledge to the police.
This could open him up to a criminal prosecution.
De Klerk has not applied for amnesty in this matter or any other.
de Klerk has said that when he learned about the bombings, Vlok and Van der Merwe were already in the process of applying for amnesty, and he did not think it was necessary to report the matter.
Following are excerpts from the final report issued by South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission on Thursday: 	PRIMARY FINDING 	On the basis of the evidence available to it, the primary finding of the Commission is that: 	The predominant portion of gross violations of human rights was committed by the former state through its security and law-enforcement agencies.
Moreover, the South African state in the period from the late 1970's to early 1990's became involved in activities of a criminal nature when, amongst other things, it knowingly planned, undertook, condoned and covered up the commission of unlawful acts, including the extrajudicial killing of political opponents and others, inside and outside South Africa.
In pursuit of these unlawful activities, the state acted in collusion with certain other political groupings, most notably the Inkatha Freedom Party (I.F.P.). . . .
Certain members of the State Security Council (the state President, Minister of Defense, Minister of Law and Order, and heads of security forces) did foresee that the use of words such as ``take out,'' ``wipe out,'' ``eradicate,'' and ``eliminate'' would result in the killing of political opponents.
They are therefore responsible for deliberate planning which caused gross violations of human rights.
P.W. BOTHA 	During the period that he presided as head of state (1978-1989) according to submissions made to and findings made by the Commission, gross violations of human rights and other unlawful acts were perpetrated on a wide scale by members of the South African Defense Force, including: 	The deliberate unlawful killing and attempted killing of persons opposed to the policies of the Government, within and outside South Africa.
The widespread use of torture and other forms of severe ill treatment against such persons.
The forcible abduction of such persons where were resident in neighboring countries.
Covert logistical and financial assistance to organizations opposed to the ideology of the A.N.C. and other liberation movements. . . .
INKATHA 	The Commission finds that in 1986, the South African Defense Forces (S.A.D.F.) conspired with Inkatha to provide the latter with a covert, offensive paramilitary unit (or ``hit squad'') to be deployed illegally against persons and organizations perceived to be opposed to both the South African Government and Inkatha.
The S.A.D.F. provided training, financial and logistical management and behind the scenes supervision of the trainees, who were trained by the Special Forces unit of the S.A.D.F. in the Caprivi Strip.
The Commission finds furthermore that the deployment of the paramilitary unit in KwaZulu led to gross violations of human rights, including killing, attempted killing and severe ill treatment.
The Commission finds the following people, among others, accountable for such violations: Mr. P. W. Botha, Gen. Magnus Malan, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi. . . .
The A.N.C.
While it was A.N.C. policy that the loss of civilian life should be ``avoided,'' there were instances where members of its security forces perpetrated gross violations of human rights in that the distinction between military and civilian targets was blurred in certain armed actions, such as the 1983 Church Street bombing of the South African Air Force headquarters. . . .
In the course of the armed struggle, the A.N.C., through its security forces, undertook military operations which, though intended for military or security force targets, sometimes went awry for a variety of reasons, including poor intelligence and reconnaissance.
The consequences in these cases, such as the Magoo's Bar and Durban Esplanade bombings, were gross violations of human rights in respect of the injuries to and loss of lives of civilians.
Individuals who defected to the state and became informers and/or members who became state witnesses in political trials . . . were often labeled by the A.N.C. as collaborators and regarded as legitimate targets to be killed.
The commission does not condone the legitimization of such individuals as military targets and finds that the extrajudicial killings of such individuals constituted gross violations of human rights.
The commission finds that, in the 1980's in particular, a number of gross violations were perpetrated not by direct members of the A.N.C. or those operating under its formal command, but by civilians who saw themselves as A.N.C. supporters.
In this regard, the Commission finds that the A.N.C. is morally and politically accountable for creating a climate in which such supporters believed their actions to be legitimate and carried out within the broad parameters of a ``people's war'' as enunciated by the A.N.C. 	A.N.C. CAMPS 	The Commission finds that suspected ``agents'' were routinely subjected to torture and other forms of severe ill treatment and that there were cases of such individuals being charged and convicted by tribunals without proper regard to due process, sentenced to death and executed.
WINNIE MADIKIZELA-MANDELA 	The Commission finds that Ms. Madikizela-Mandela was central to the establishment and formation of the Mandela United Football Club, which later developed into a private vigilante unit.
It is the Commission's view that Ms. Madikizela-Mandela was aware of the criminal activity and the disquiet it caused in the community, but chose deliberately not to address the problems emanating from the football club.
The Commission finds that those who opposed Ms. Madikizela-Mandela and the Mandela United Football Club, or dissented from them, were branded as informers and killed.
The Commission finds that Ms. Madikizela-Mandela . . . is accountable, politically and morally for the gross violations of human rights committed by the Mandela United Football Club.
The Commission finds further that Mrs. Madikizela-Mandela herself was responsible for committing such gross violations of human rights. . . .
BUSINESS 	Business was central to the economy that sustained the South African state during the apartheid years.
Certain businesses, especially the mining industry, were involved in helping design and implement apartheid policies.
The white agriculture industry benefited from its privileged access to land.
The New York Times said in an editorial on Sunday, Nov. 1: 	The 3,500-page report of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, released on Thursday, is the most comprehensive and unsparing examination of a nation's ugly past that any such commission has yet produced.
Drawing from the commission's own investigations and the testimony of hundreds of applicants for amnesty and 20,000 victims, the report is a detailed look at the crimes of the apartheid era, and blames successive white governments for the vast majority.
It has fulfilled its mandate of telling the fullest truth possible, which is one reason that every political party in South Africa has denounced it.
Besides accusing the government of assassinations and bombings, the report criticizes the Inkatha Freedom Party for its massacres and collaboration with security forces, and blames the African National Congress for the murder of civilians and other crimes.
It singles out former President P.W. Botha, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the Inkatha leader, and Winnie Mandela, among others, for detailed treatment of their roles in political crimes.
One major flaw in the report is the absence of a section accusing F.W. de Klerk, the last apartheid president, of knowing about several bombings after the fact and keeping silent.
It was excised because de Klerk is suing the commission.
The ANC also sued, unsuccessfully, to stop publication.
The lawsuits are a disappointing sign that South Africa's political parties are not interested in an honest look at their past, nor in the free flow of information.
The controversy has added to widespread complaints that the commission has not helped the process of reconciliation.
This is wrong.
True reconciliation _ which occurs when a society is no longer paralyzed by the past and people can work and live together _ cannot be based on silence.
No society can be restored to health by papering over as much pain as South Africans have suffered.
A noisy and informed debate about complicity in the crimes of the apartheid era is necessary, if uncomfortable.
The report is only part of the Truth Commission's contribution to the healing process.
The hearings themselves, which allowed victims of human rights violations to tell their stories in public, helped the country heal and opened the eyes of many whites to the unpleasant truth about apartheid.
The amnesty process, while permitting many important criminals to escape justice, is allowing families to know exactly what happened to their loved ones in dozens of cases that would likely have never gone to trial in South Africa's fragile judicial system.
The process of helping the victims with scholarships and other necessary aid goes on, although it will not be enough.
No commission can transform a society as twisted as South Africa's was.
But the Truth Commission is the best effort the world has seen, and South Africa is the better for it.
The deal that South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission offered was simple enough: Confess your crimes, apply for amnesty and you will go free.
If you don't come forward, you will be prosecuted.
After more than two years of hearings into apartheid-era atrocities, the commission last week unveiled a 3,500-page report naming dozens of people it believes were up to their elbows in the gore but never applied for amnesty.
So the prosecutions should begin soon, right?
Not so fast.
The study was barely in the hands of President Nelson Mandela before talk of new amnesty deals had begun.
It seems that nearly all of South Africa's political parties _ including the ruling African National Congress _ have key officials who could end up in the dock because of the report.
Suddenly, there is lots of talk about how the country can't withstand a round of politically divisive trials, and many political analysts here are betting that an agreement ``of mutual benefit'' is in the offing.
Already, three major political parties are calling for some kind of new amnesty, and the ANC isn't closing the door.
ANC spokesman Thabo Masebe said it was ``premature'' to talk of a general amnesty, but he acknowledged that the party was discussing an amnesty specifically tailored to violence by black South Africans against other blacks that littered the KwaZulu/Natal province with bodies during the late '80s and into the '90s.
In choosing a truth commission rather than a Nuremberg-style trial with which to close out its brutal past, South Africa hoped for an idealistic reconciliation.
People would come clean and receive true forgiveness.
Society would then be able to move on, its wounds cleansed and healed.
It was a model watched closely around the world by other societies wondering how to disentangle themselves from the grudges of a brutal past.
But given the chance, hundreds of South Africa's perpetrators did not come forward.
Commission officials themselves say they were frustrated by the lack of cooperation, however exhaustive their report may seem.
It is perhaps too late, however, to press for more.
Today's South Africa has urgent new problems to deal with _ unemployment, crime, white flight, too few schools and hospitals.
So it may wind up settling for a more pragmatic reconciliation _ one that gives amnesty to the unrepentant simply because it's more practical for all concerned to move on.
In recent years, truth commissions have gained popularity in many places, notably Chile, Argentina and El Salvador.
But South Africa's _ the biggest and most powerful, able to grant amnesty and to subpoena witnesses _ was supposed to be the real test.
Certainly the commission forced the nation to see the gruesome details of its past, as sobbing survivors and stone-faced torturers told of smashed genitals and near suffocations.
And the commission's work added much to the knowledge about what happened in South Africa between 1960 and 1994.
But it will be years before the effect of the commission can truly be judged.
Has anyone really forgiven anyone else?
Will vendettas persist?
No one can answer.
One thing seems clear, however: Four years after South Africa held its first non-racial elections, a growing number of South Africans want to be done with the past.
Raymond Louw, the publisher of a respected weekly newsletter, Southern Africa Report, says a new amnesty proposal could come up during the February session of Parliament, in time to remove the issue from next year's election campaigns.
``You simply can't have this country torn apart by prosecutions,'' he says.
``Everybody is going to be howling for an amnesty.
They already are.''
Even as Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the commission's chairman, delivered the report, he seemed to be anticipating a push for a new amnesty and arguing against it.
He said such a move would be highly unfair to those who came forward.
He suggested instead that there be a two-year time limit, after which anyone not indicted would in effect get amnesty.
To be sure, there will be opposition to any proposals to limit prosecutions.
More than a dozen human rights and victims advocacy groups have already banded together to condemn such proposals as ``unconscionable.''
The idea for a Truth Commission emerged as a compromise from the long negotiations that brought about South Africa's peaceful transition from a white supremacist state to a non-racial democracy.
During the talks, the white National Party government pushed for a blanket amnesty, and the ANC refused.
In the end, only about 250 former police officers came forward, most of them foot soldiers.
And only two high National Party officials, former Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Police Commissioner Johan van der Merwe, confessed _ to roles in ordering bombings.
In its report, the commission called the apartheid state the ``primary perpetrator'' of gross human rights violations and held such high ranking former officials as former President P.W. Botha, his former army chief, Georg Meiring, and the former intelligence chief, Niel Barnard, responsible.
These men, and others of lower rank, have not applied for amnesty 	For the ANC, the most embarrassing prospect is the possible prosecution of Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who is accused in the report of taking part in a number of assaults and abductions.
Lesser-known officials could face charges too.
The ANC is held responsible for at least 76 deaths in KwaZulu/Natal.
The ANC's problems are further complicated by its efforts to make peace with the largely Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party.
Virtually no one from that party came forward to ask for amnesty.
Yet the report found that Inkatha, working with the white government, was responsible for widespread slaughter in KwaZulu/Natal and in the townships around Johannesburg.
Inkatha's leader, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and many key party officials stand accused of fomenting a wide range of abuses.
But prosecuting Chief Buthelezi could lead to new warfare in KwaZulu.
Part of the reluctance to go forward with prosecutions may be the result of still another factor: The judicial system is already overwhelmed with rising crime and the evidence from the apartheid era is old.
So why spend the time and the money?
At the moment, only one political party is opposed to any form of new amnesty _ the tiny but influential Democratic Party, a liberal group that was not involved in the violence.
Its head, Tony Leon, says a new amnesty would only prove that ``the more thuglike your behavior, the more you get away with.''
But he concedes that his is a lonely voice.
``At this point,'' he says, ``there is little enthusiasm for anything but closing the book on the past.''
The deal that South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission offered was simple enough: Confess your crimes, apply for amnesty and you will go free.
If you don't come forward, you will be prosecuted.
After more than two years of hearings into apartheid-era atrocities, the commission last week unveiled a 3,500-page report naming dozens of people it believes were up to their elbows in the gore but never applied for amnesty.
So the prosecutions should begin soon, right?
Not so fast.
The study was barely in the hands of President Nelson Mandela before talk of new amnesty deals had begun.
It seems that nearly all of South Africa's political parties _ including the ruling African National Congress _ have key officials who could end up in the dock because of the report.
Suddenly, there is lots of talk about how the country can't withstand a round of politically divisive trials, and many political analysts here are betting that an agreement ``of mutual benefit'' is in the offing.
Already, three major political parties are calling for some kind of new amnesty, and the ANC isn't closing the door.
ANC spokesman Thabo Masebe said it was ``premature'' to talk of a general amnesty, but he acknowledged that the party was discussing an amnesty specifically tailored to violence by black South Africans against other blacks that littered the KwaZulu/Natal province with bodies during the late '80s and into the '90s.
In choosing a truth commission rather than a Nuremberg-style trial with which to close out its brutal past, South Africa hoped for an idealistic reconciliation.
People would come clean and receive true forgiveness.
Society would then be able to move on, its wounds cleansed and healed.
It was a model watched closely around the world by other societies wondering how to disentangle themselves from the grudges of a brutal past.
But given the chance, hundreds of South Africa's perpetrators did not come forward.
Commission officials themselves say they were frustrated by the lack of cooperation, however exhaustive their report may seem.
It is perhaps too late, however, to press for more.
Today's South Africa has urgent new problems to deal with _ unemployment, crime, white flight, too few schools and hospitals.
So it may wind up settling for a more pragmatic reconciliation _ one that gives amnesty to the unrepentant simply because it's more practical for all concerned to move on.
In recent years, truth commissions have gained popularity in many places, notably Chile, Argentina and El Salvador.
But South Africa's _ the biggest and most powerful, able to grant amnesty and to subpoena witnesses _ was supposed to be the real test.
Certainly the commission forced the nation to see the gruesome details of its past, as sobbing survivors and stone-faced torturers told of smashed genitals and near suffocations.
And the commission's work added much to the knowledge about what happened in South Africa between 1960 and 1994.
But it will be years before the effect of the commission can truly be judged.
Has anyone really forgiven anyone else?
Will vendettas persist?
No one can answer.
One thing seems clear, however: Four years after South Africa held its first non-racial elections, a growing number of South Africans want to be done with the past.
Raymond Louw, the publisher of a respected weekly newsletter, Southern Africa Report, says a new amnesty proposal could come up during the February session of Parliament, in time to remove the issue from next year's election campaigns.
``You simply can't have this country torn apart by prosecutions,'' he says.
``Everybody is going to be howling for an amnesty.
They already are.''
Even as Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the commission's chairman, delivered the report, he seemed to be anticipating a push for a new amnesty and arguing against it.
He said such a move would be highly unfair to those who came forward.
He suggested instead that there be a two-year time limit, after which anyone not indicted would in effect get amnesty.
To be sure, there will be opposition to any proposals to limit prosecutions.
More than a dozen human rights and victims advocacy groups have already banded together to condemn such proposals as ``unconscionable.''
The idea for a Truth Commission emerged as a compromise from the long negotiations that brought about South Africa's peaceful transition from a white supremacist state to a non-racial democracy.
During the talks, the white National Party government pushed for a blanket amnesty, and the ANC refused.
In the end, only about 250 former police officers came forward, most of them foot soldiers.
And only two high National Party officials, former Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Police Commissioner Johan van der Merwe, confessed _ to roles in ordering bombings.
In its report, the commission called the apartheid state the ``primary perpetrator'' of gross human rights violations and held such high ranking former officials as former President P.W. Botha, his former army chief, Georg Meiring, and the former intelligence chief, Niel Barnard, responsible.
These men, and others of lower rank, have not applied for amnesty 	For the ANC, the most embarrassing prospect is the possible prosecution of Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who is accused in the report of taking part in a number of assaults and abductions.
Lesser-known officials could face charges too.
The ANC is held responsible for at least 76 deaths in KwaZulu/Natal.
The ANC's problems are further complicated by its efforts to make peace with the largely Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party.
Virtually no one from that party came forward to ask for amnesty.
Yet the report found that Inkatha, working with the white government, was responsible for widespread slaughter in KwaZulu/Natal and in the townships around Johannesburg.
Inkatha's leader, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and many key party officials stand accused of fomenting a wide range of abuses.
But prosecuting Chief Buthelezi could lead to new warfare in KwaZulu.
Part of the reluctance to go forward with prosecutions may be the result of still another factor: The judicial system is already overwhelmed with rising crime and the evidence from the apartheid era is old.
So why spend the time and the money?
At the moment, only one political party is opposed to any form of new amnesty _ the tiny but influential Democratic Party, a liberal group that was not involved in the violence.
Its head, Tony Leon, says a new amnesty would only prove that ``the more thuglike your behavior, the more you get away with.''
But he concedes that his is a lonely voice.
``At this point,'' he says, ``there is little enthusiasm for anything but closing the book on the past.''
In October 1998 Pope John Paul II visited Croatia where, at Marija Bystrica, he beatified Cardinal Stepinac, archbishop of Zagreb during World War II.
Revered by Croats as an anti-communist martyr, Stepinac is regarded by most Serbs as a Nazi sympathizer.
Thus the Pope, while preaching peace, unity, and reconciliation, stirred up enmities in the former Yugoslavia.
After the beatification the Pope moved on to Split where he called for a more democratic Croatia "based on the moral values inscribed in the very nature of the human being," and asked the world to do more for victims of the recent Balkan war.
On Pope John Paul II's three-day visit to Croatia, he beatified controversial  cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, in Marija Bistrica, Croatia's leading shrine to the  Virgin Mary.
Roman Catholics hail Stepinac as a martyr, but many Serbs and Jews  accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
The Croats, most of whom are Catholic,  welcomed the pope with joy, as did President Franjo Tudjman.
At a mass in Split,  John Paul called for reconciliation throughout the former Yugoslavia and urged  the world to do more for the victims of the Balkan war that ended not long ago in  Croatia and that has most recently raged in Kosovo.
Pope John Paul II paid a three-day visit to Croatia in November 1998.
The  primary purpose of this, his second, visit was the beatification (the last step  before sainthood) of Cardinal Stepinac, who died in 1960.
The Pope declared  Stepinac a martyr to the atrocities of Communism, but many non-Catholics considered  him a nazi sympathizer during World War II.
Almost 500,000 people attended the  ceremony in Marija Bistrica.
The Pope later met with President Tudjman in Zagreb  and said a final mass in Split, where he called for reconciliation, a renewal of  values, and increased international aid to the war-torn Balkans.
Pope John Paul II, during a visit to Croatia, beatified the WW II cardinal of  Zagreb, Alojzije Stepinac, for his staunch opposition to communism.
Though a  hero to Catholics, who comprise 80 percent of Croatia, Serbs view Stepinac as a  wartime sympathizer with the pro-Nazi dictatorship that governed Croatia and  killed thousands of Serbs, Jews, and Gypsies.
Stepinac eventually denounced the  atrocities, but to Serbs he is a symbol of Vatican cooperation with fascist  leaders who are now being recast as Croatian patriots.
Arrested in 1946 as a  Nazi sympathizer, he was jailed and then released under house arrest in 1951.
Bestowing on him the ``radiant badge of martyrdom,'' Pope John Paul II on Saturday honored Croatia's World War II cardinal, a hero to Roman Catholics, but long a symbol of divisions in the Balkans.
Before a huge crowd spread over several muddy hillsides overlooking Croatia's main shrine to the Virgin Mary, John Paul beatified Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, elevating him to the last step before possible sainthood.
More than 400,000 people stood solemnly under damp trees at the open-air site, as far as a kilometer (half-mile) from the altar.
John Paul appealed to a country that has suffered from war and ethnic divisions ``to forgive and reconcile and to purify one's memory of hatred'' and ``the desire for revenge.''
The pope said Stepinac ``having endured in his own body and his own spirit the atrocities of the communist system is now entrusted to the memory of his fellow countrymen with the radiant badge of martyrdom.''
Stepinac was hailed as a hero by Catholics for his resistance to communism and refusal to separate the Croatian church from the Vatican.
But his beatification, the last step before possible sainthood, is controversial because many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
While serving as Zagreb's archbishop in 1941, Stepinac supported Croatia's German-backed fascist puppet government led by dictator Ante Pavelic.
By 1942, however, Stepinac denounced the regime's genocidal policies, which led to the extermination of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and Croat opponents.
He died at 62 in 1960 while under house arrest following his conviction on charges of collaborating with the Nazis.
Stepinac's own notes and recent studies say he spoke out against the atrocities, and worked to save lives, but many Serbs still consider him a war criminal.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a U.S.-based Nazi-hunting group, also had asked the Vatican to postpone the beatification pending further study of the cardinal's actions, although some local Jews defended Stepinac.
John Paul addressed the criticism in his homily, quoting from a 1943 address by the cardinal condemning injustices and the killing of innocents.
He said Stepinac's figure summed up ``the whole tragedy which befell the Croatian people and Europe in the course of this century marked by the three great evils of fascism, national socialism and communism.''
``He is now in the joy of heaven, surrounded by those who, like him, fought the good fight, purifying their faith in the crucible of suffering,'' said John Paul, speaking from an altar before a 5-meter (15-foot) high portrait of Stepinac.
The pope, who battled communism in his own Polish homeland, stressed Stepinac's treatment by Yugoslavia's communist regime after the war, saying the last 15 years of his life ``were a continual succession of trials.''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians and Muslims.
Stipe Dorotic, a 38-year electrician from eastern Croatia, who attended the ceremony said hoped that the beatification ``will enable Croats to face the future with more confidence and faith.''
Croatia was a part of communist-run Yugoslavia until 1991, when it proclaimed independence.
The Vatican was one of the first states to recognize its independence.
The secession of Croatia, and later of neighboring Bosnia, led to bloody wars in which tens of thousands of people were killed.
It is John Paul's second visit to Croatia, following a 1994 pilgrimage.
He flew to Sarajevo last year, realizing his desire to pay tribute to those who suffered during the war.
He also toured Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia, but has not been to Serbia, apparently because of resistance from Orthodox leaders.
Bestowing on him the ``radiant badge of martyrdom,'' Pope John Paul II on Saturday honored Croatia's World War II cardinal, a hero to Roman Catholics, but long a symbol of divisions in the Balkans.
Before a huge crowd spread over several muddy hillsides overlooking Croatia's main shrine to the Virgin Mary, John Paul beatified Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, elevating him to the last step before possible sainthood.
More than 400,000 people stood solemnly under damp trees at the open-air site, as far as a kilometer (half-mile) from the altar.
John Paul appealed to a country that has suffered from war and ethnic divisions ``to forgive and reconcile and to purify one's memory of hatred'' and ``the desire for revenge.''
The pope said Stepinac ``having endured in his own body and his own spirit the atrocities of the communist system is now entrusted to the memory of his fellow countrymen with the radiant badge of martyrdom.''
Stepinac was hailed as a hero by Catholics for his resistance to communism and refusal to separate the Croatian church from the Vatican.
But his beatification, the last step before possible sainthood, is controversial because many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
While serving as Zagreb's archbishop in 1941, Stepinac supported Croatia's German-backed puppet government led by dictator Ante Pavelic.
By 1942, however, Stepinac denounced the regime's genocidal policies, which led to the extermination of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and Croat opponents.
He died at 62 in 1960 while under house arrest following his conviction on charges of collaborating with the Nazis.
Stepinac's own notes and recent studies say he spoke out against the atrocities, and worked to save lives, but many Serbs still consider him a war criminal.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a U.S.-based Nazi-hunting group, also had asked the Vatican to postpone the beatification pending further study of the cardinal's actions, although some local Jews defended Stepinac.
John Paul addressed the criticism in his homily, quoting from a 1943 address by the cardinal condemning injustices and the killing of innocents.
He said Stepinac's figure summed up ``the whole tragedy which befell the Croatian people and Europe in the course of this century marked by the three great evils of fascism, national socialism and communism.''
``He is now in the joy of heaven, surrounded by those who, like him, fought the good fight, purifying their faith in the crucible of suffering,'' said John Paul, speaking from an altar before a 5-meter (15-foot) high portrait of Stepinac.
The pope, who battled communism in his own Polish homeland, stressed Stepinac's treatment by Yugoslavia's communist regime after the war, saying the last 15 years of his life ``were a continual succession of trials.''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians and Muslims.
Stipe Dorotic, a 38-year electrician from eastern Croatia, who attended the ceremony said hoped that the beatification ``will enable Croats to face the future with more confidence and faith.''
Croatia was a part of communist-run Yugoslavia until 1991, when it proclaimed independence.
The Vatican was one of the first states to recognize its independence.
The secession of Croatia, and later of neighboring Bosnia, led to bloody wars in which tens of thousands of people were killed.
It is John Paul's second visit to Croatia, following a 1994 pilgrimage.
He flew to Sarajevo last year, realizing his desire to pay tribute to those who suffered during the war.
He also toured Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia, but has not been to Serbia, apparently because of resistance from Orthodox leaders.
Declaring him a martyr of the faith, Pope John Paul II on Saturday honored Croatia's World War II cardinal, a hero to Roman Catholics, but long a symbol of divisions in the Balkans.
Half a million od people watched with delight and gratitude as John Paul beatified Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, elevating him to the last step before possible sainthood, in Marija Bistrica, Croatia's leading Marian shrine to the Virgin Mary.
John Paul appealed to a country that has suffered from war and ethnic divisions ``to forgive and reconcile and to purify one's memory of hatred'' and ``the desire for revenge.''
The pope said Stepinac ``having endured in his own body and his own spirit the atrocities of the communist system is now entrusted to the memory of his fellow countrymen with the radiant badge of martyrdom.''
Stepinac was hailed as a hero by Catholics for his resistance to communism and refusal to separate the Croatian church from the Vatican.
But his beatification, the last step before possible sainthood, is controversial because many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
While serving as Zagreb's archbishop in 1941, Stepinac supported Croatia's German-backed fascist puppet government led by dictator Ante Pavelic.
By 1942, however, Stepinac denounced the regime's genocidal policies, which led to the extermination of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and Croat opponents.
He died at 62 in 1960 while under house arrest following his conviction on charges of collaborating with the Nazis.
Stepinac's own notes and recent studies say he spoke out against the atrocities, and worked to save lives, but many Serbs still consider him a war criminal.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a U.S.-based Nazi-hunting group, also had asked the Vatican to postpone the beatification pending further study of the cardinal's actions, although some local Jews defended Stepinac.
John Paul addressed the criticism in his homily, quoting from a 1943 address by the cardinal condemning injustices and the killing of innocents.
He said Stepinac's figure summed up ``the whole tragedy which befell the Croatian people and Europe in the course of this century marked by the three great evils of fascism, national socialism and communism.''
``He is now in the joy of heaven, surrounded by those who, like him, fought the good fight, purifying their faith in the crucible of suffering,'' said John Paul, speaking from an altar before a 5-meter (15-foot) high portrait of Stepinac.
A silver box, containing a relict of the new church blessed _ a finger _ was placed under the portrait.
The pope, who battled communism in his own Polish homeland, stressed Stepinac's treatment by Yugoslavia's communist regime after the war, saying the last 15 years of his life ``were a continual succession of trials.''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians and Muslims.
Stipe Dorotic, a 38-year electrician from eastern Croatia, who attended the ceremony said hoped that the beatification ``will enable Croats to face the future with more confidence and faith.''
Croatia was a part of communist-run Yugoslavia until 1991, when it proclaimed independence.
The Vatican was one of the first states to recognize its independence.
The secession of Croatia, and later of neighboring Bosnia, led to bloody wars in which tens of thousands of people were killed.
It is John Paul's second visit to Croatia, following a 1994 pilgrimage.
He flew to Sarajevo last year, realizing his desire to pay tribute to those who suffered during the war.
He also toured Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia, but has not been to Serbia, apparently because of resistance from Orthodox leaders.
Declaring him a martyr of the faith, Pope John Paul II on Saturday honored Croatia's World War II cardinal, a hero to Roman Catholics, but long a symbol of divisions in the Balkans.
Half a million od people watched with delight and gratitude as John Paul beatified Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, elevating him to the last step before possible sainthood, in Marija Bistrica, Croatia's leading Marian shrine to the Virgin Mary.
John Paul appealed to a country that has suffered from war and ethnic divisions ``to forgive and reconcile and to purify one's memory of hatred'' and ``the desire for revenge.''
The pope said Stepinac ``having endured in his own body and his own spirit the atrocities of the communist system is now entrusted to the memory of his fellow countrymen with the radiant badge of martyrdom.''
Stepinac was hailed as a hero by Catholics for his resistance to communism and refusal to separate the Croatian church from the Vatican.
But his beatification, the last step before possible sainthood, is controversial because many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
While serving as Zagreb's archbishop in 1941, Stepinac supported Croatia's German-backed fascist puppet government led by dictator Ante Pavelic.
By 1942, however, Stepinac denounced the regime's genocidal policies, which led to the extermination of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and Croat opponents.
He died at 62 in 1960 while under house arrest following his conviction on charges of collaborating with the Nazis.
Stepinac's own notes and recent studies say he spoke out against the atrocities, and worked to save lives, but many Serbs still consider him a war criminal.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a U.S.-based Nazi-hunting group, also had asked the Vatican to postpone the beatification pending further study of the cardinal's actions, although some local Jews defended Stepinac.
John Paul addressed the criticism in his homily, quoting from a 1943 address by the cardinal condemning injustices and the killing of innocents.
He said Stepinac's figure summed up ``the whole tragedy which befell the Croatian people and Europe in the course of this century marked by the three great evils of fascism, national socialism and communism.''
``He is now in the joy of heaven, surrounded by those who, like him, fought the good fight, purifying their faith in the crucible of suffering,'' said John Paul, speaking from an altar before a 5-meter (15-foot) high portrait of Stepinac.
A silver box, containing a relict of the new church blessed _ a finger _ was placed under the portrait.
The pope, who battled communism in his own Polish homeland, stressed Stepinac's treatment by Yugoslavia's communist regime after the war, saying the last 15 years of his life ``were a continual succession of trials.''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians and Muslims.
Stipe Dorotic, a 38-year electrician from eastern Croatia, who attended the ceremony said hoped that the beatification ``will enable Croats to face the future with more confidence and faith.''
Croatia was a part of communist-run Yugoslavia until 1991, when it proclaimed independence.
The Vatican was one of the first states to recognize its independence.
The secession of Croatia, and later of neighboring Bosnia, led to bloody wars in which tens of thousands of people were killed.
It is John Paul's second visit to Croatia, following a 1994 pilgrimage.
He flew to Sarajevo last year, realizing his desire to pay tribute to those who suffered during the war.
He also toured Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia, but has not been to Serbia, apparently because of resistance from Orthodox leaders.
Declaring him a martyr of the faith, Pope John Paul II on Saturday honored Croatia's World War II cardinal, a hero to Roman Catholics, but long a symbol of divisions in the Balkans.
Half a million people watched with delight and gratitude as John Paul beatified Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, elevating him to the last step before possible sainthood, in Marija Bistrica, Croatia's leading shrine to the Virgin Mary.
John Paul appealed to a country that has suffered from war and ethnic divisions ``to forgive and reconcile and to purify one's memory of hatred'' and ``the desire for revenge.''
The pope said Stepinac ,''having endured in his own body and his own spirit the atrocities of the communist system, is now entrusted to the memory of his fellow countrymen with the radiant badge of martyrdom.''
Later Saturday, the pontiff met Croatian President Franjo Tudjman at his palace in the capital Zagreb.
Government officials and foreign ambassadors, including Veljko Knezevic, the ambassador of Serb-led Yugoslavia, were also present to greet John Paul.
&UR; Stepinac was, 5th graf, pvs.
On a sun-basked seaside packed with pilgrims, Pope John Paul II sought Sunday to heal the wounds left by war and totalitarian rule, urging a renewal of values in Croatian society.
Hundreds of thousands of Roman Catholics jammed a beach outside this Adriatic coastal city for John Paul's final Mass of the three-day trip to Croatia.
Scores of fishing and pleasure boats anchored off shore sounded their sirens when the pope arrived from Zagreb.
Adding to the numbers were Croat pilgrims from Montenegro, who streamed in when the border crossing was opened Saturday night for the first time since civil war ended in 1995, state-run Croatian television reported.
``Croats are today called to give a new face to their country, above all by committing themselves to the renewal in society of the ethical and moral values undermined by past totalitarianism and by the recent violence of war,'' John Paul said.
``It is an urgent task, for without values there can be no true freedom or democracy.''
The need for reconciliation and a renewal of values has been high on the pope's agenda during his stay.
The breakup of Yugoslavia sparked a civil war in 1991 that left over 10,000 dead and thousands missing before the 1995 Dayton Accords ended the fighting.
Split was untouched by the fighting, but Zadar, Sibenik and Dubrovnik along the Dalmatian Coast were both heavily damaged.
Dubrovnik suffered damage to some of its art and cultural treasures.
The pope mentioned this in his homily.
``The eye of man can no longer rejoice in them,'' he said of losses to architectural masterpieces.
``How can we not feel regret for this?''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians in Serbia and Muslims in Bosnia.
For most Croats, the highlight of the pope's three-day visit was Saturday's beatification of the controversial World War II cardinal, Alojzije Stepinac.
Roman Catholics hail Stepinac as a martyr, but many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
Beatification is the last step before possible sainthood.
On a sun-basked seaside packed with pilgrims, Pope John Paul II sought Sunday to heal the wounds left by war and totalitarian rule, urging a renewal in Croatian society.
Hundreds of thousands of Roman Catholics jammed a beach outside this Adriatic coastal city for John Paul's final Mass of the three-day trip to Croatia.
Scores of fishing and pleasure boats anchored off shore sounded their sirens when the pope arrived from Zagreb.
Adding to the numbers were Croat pilgrims from Montenegro, who streamed in when the border crossing was opened Saturday night for the first time since war ended in 1995, state-run Croatian television reported.
``Croats are today called to give a new face to their country, above all by committing themselves to the renewal in society of the ethical and moral values undermined by past totalitarianism and by the recent violence of war,'' John Paul said.
``It is an urgent task, for without values there can be no true freedom or democracy.''
Reconciliation and the renewal of values have been high on the pope's agenda during his stay.
The breakup of Yugoslavia sparked a civil war in 1991 that left over 10,000 dead and thousands missing before the 1995 Dayton Accords ended the fighting.
Split was untouched by the fighting, but Zadar, Sibenik and Dubrovnik along the Dalmatian Coast were both heavily damaged.
Dubrovnik suffered damage to some of its art and cultural treasures.
The pope mentioned this in his homily.
``The eye of man can no longer rejoice in them,'' he said of losses to architectural masterpieces.
``How can we not feel regret for this?''
Some 80 percent of Croatia's 4.7 million population is Catholic, and the Vatican looks at the country as a Catholic bastion in the Balkans, amid Orthodox Christians in Serbia and Muslims in Bosnia.
For most Croats, the highlight of the pope's three-day visit was Saturday's beatification of the controversial World War II cardinal, Alojzije Stepinac.
Roman Catholics hail Stepinac as a martyr, but many Serbs and Jews accuse him of sympathizing with the Nazis.
Beatification is the last step before possible sainthood.
Hailing the World War II archbishop of Zagreb as a martyr to ``the atrocities of the communist system,'' Pope John Paul II beatified him on Saturday.
Beatification is the final step before sainthood.
But by paying such homage to Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, who was imprisoned by the Tito regime as a Nazi collaborator, the pope also stepped into one of the most divisive Serbo-Croatian disputes in all the embattled regions of the former Yugoslavia.
Stepinac is a national hero to millions of Roman Catholic Croats, and to Croatia's nationalist president, Franjo Tudjman.
To Orthodox Serbs, who formed a minority in Croatia for centuries but have largely left or been driven from Tudjman's state, the beatification is a political provocation.
They have long viewed Stepinac as a wartime sympathizer with the pro-Nazi puppet regime that killed tens, even hundreds, of thousands of Serbs, Jews and Gypsies _ a regime that many here see as the precursor of today's independent state.
In his pastoral visit to Croatia, the ailing 78-year-old pope, who has been in office 20 years this month, seems to be viewing history through a different prism than the peoples he says he wants to reconcile.
It is perhaps not surprising that the Polish-born John Paul, who used his pulpit to help topple Soviet totalitarianism, would revere a church leader who was persecuted by the Communists and died under house arrest in 1960.
But in post-communist Croatia, it has been a long time since religion was viewed as a bulwark against an atheist oppressor.
As one of the few tangible differences between Serbs, Croats and Muslims, religion has for the last 10 years been a main ingredient of the nationalist hatreds that have fed their war.
Among the more than 350,000 believers who crowded on a steep, damp hill in front of the pope's outdoor altar, people expressed pride in the beatification and defiance of its critics.
``It is good to have a saint of our own, someone to speak to God for us,'' said Kruno Cabraka, 20, a Zagreb student who arrived in Marija Bistrica at 2 a.m. to secure a glimpse of the pope.
He shrugged off the complaints of minorities: ``We don't care about their saints.
Why should they care about ours?''
John Paul has not visited Orthodox Serbia but has made several trips to other regions of the former Yugoslavia, always preaching peace and unity in an area brutally torn by ethnic and religious differences.
In 1994 he made his first visit to Croatia, which is more than 75 percent Catholic and which lost a third of its territory to the Serbs after it broke away from Yugoslavia in a 1991 war.
Earlier this year, the United Nations returned control of Eastern Slavonia _ the last Serb-dominated area in Croatia _ to the Tudjman government.
But tensions there remain high.
The Orthodox Church is unforgiving of what it sees as the Catholic Church's complicity in the systematic murder, eviction or forced conversion of Serbs during World War II.
Under the authoritarian leadership of Tudjman, moreover, many Croats are recasting the pro-Nazi Ustashe as patriots and founding fathers of the modern Croatian state.
The rehabilitation of Stepinac strikes a raw nerve at the heart of this revisionism.
After Germany invaded Yugoslavia in 1941, Ante Pavelic led a pro-Nazi dictatorship that controlled a newly independent Croatia.
The archbishop of Zagreb, a fervent anti-communist, initially embraced the Pavelic government as ``God's hand at work.''
But as evidence mounted of atrocities against Serbs, Jews and other minorities, the archbishop withdrew his support.
By 1942 he began denouncing Ustashe excesses, once in a letter to Pavelic and, in 1943, in church homilies and letters to priests.
Arrested by Tito's forces in 1946, the archbishop was given a show trial, imprisoned and released under house arrest in 1951.
Pope Pius XII later made him cardinal.
The Vatican and many historians credit him with saving hundreds of Jewish and Serbian lives, but his critics maintain that by not speaking out more, he condoned and effectively supported the Ustashe regime.
To Serbs he has long been a symbol of the many Catholic priests who cooperated with the Ustashe.
John Paul II, who has canonized more than 270 people and beatified close to 800, has made more saints than any other pope in history.
The cause of Stepinac is one of the most controversial to date.
A week before he left Rome, the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Paris asked the Vatican to delay beatification of Stepinac until historians could give the case further study.
The intervention infuriated Croatian officials as well as the Vatican.
In Croatia, the Jewish community expressed resignation.
``There is no question he saved hundreds of Jews and others,'' said Slavko Goldstein, leader of the Jewish community in Croatia, which numbers about 2,000.
He described the cardinal's record as mixed.
``He tried to correct some of the worst aspects, but he never condemned the regime as such,'' Goldstein said.
He expressed regret that the beatification _ linked entirely to the cardinal's resistance to communism _ was unlikely to prompt Croats to examine a wartime past clouded in myth.
``This will not clarify the period of World War II,'' Goldstein added.
``Croatian society has yet to deal with something that Germans have dealt with successfully.''
The pope seemed indirectly to address some of the questions that the beatification has raised.
``Blessed Alojzije Stepinac did not shed his blood in the strict sense of the word,'' he said, alluding to the fact that martyrs are usually slain by their persecutors.
``His death was caused by the long suffering he endured.''
He also made a veiled reference to the speed with which the Croatian church leader had been beatified, a process that in many cases can take centuries.
``Very little time separates us from the life and death of Cardinal Stepinac,'' John Paul said, ``barely 38 years.
We all know the context of this death: a continual succession of trials.''
The beatification may also owe its speed to the pope's fear that a successor may be less sensitive to the East European Church's struggle against communism, to which he has devoted much of his life.
Hailing the World War II archbishop of Zagreb as a martyr to ``the atrocities of the Communist system,'' Pope John Paul II beatified him Saturday.
Beatification is the final step before sainthood.
But by paying such homage to Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, who was imprisoned by the Tito government as a Nazi collaborator, the pope also stepped into one of the most divisive Serbian-Croatian disputes in all of former Yugoslavia.
Stepinac is a national hero to millions of Roman Catholic Croats, and to Croatia's nationalist president, Franjo Tudjman.
To Orthodox Serbs, who formed a minority in Croatia for centuries but have largely left or been driven from Tudjman's state, the beatification is a political provocation.
They have long viewed Stepinac as a wartime sympathizer with the pro-Nazi puppet regime that killed tens, perhaps hundreds, of thousands of Serbs, Jews and Gypsies _ a regime that many here see as the precursor of today's independent state.
In his pastoral visit to Croatia, the ailing 78-year-old pope, who has been in office 20 years this month, seems to be viewing history through a different prism than the peoples he says he wants to reconcile.
It is perhaps not surprising that the Polish-born John Paul, who used his pulpit to help topple Soviet totalitarianism, would revere a church leader who was persecuted by the Communists and died under house arrest in 1960.
But in post-Communist Croatia, it has been a long time since religion was viewed as a bulwark against an atheist oppressor.
As one of the few tangible differences between Serbs, Croats and Muslims, religion has for the last 10 years been a main ingredient of the nationalist hatreds that have fed their war.
Among the more than 350,000 believers who crowded onto a steep hill in front of the pope's outdoor altar, there was pride in the beatification and defiance of its critics.
``It is good to have a saint of our own, someone to speak to God for us,'' said Kruno Cabraka, 20, a Zagreb student who came north to Marija Bistrica, arriving at 2 a.m. to ensure that he would catch a glimpse of the pope.
He shrugged off the complaints of minorities: ``We don't care about their saints.
Why should they care about ours?''
Pope John Paul has not visited Orthodox Serbia, but he has made several trips to Balkan sites, always preaching peace and unity in an area torn by ethnic and religious differences.
In 1994 he made his first visit to Croatia, which is more than 75 percent Catholic and which lost a third of its land to the Serbs in 1991.
The Orthodox Church is unforgiving of what it sees as the Catholic Church's complicity in the systematic killing, eviction or forced conversion of Serbs during World War II.
Under Tudjman, moreover, many Croats are recasting the pro-Nazi Ustashe, who were led by Ante Pavelic, as patriots and founding fathers of the modern Croatian state.
The beatification of Stepinac strikes a raw nerve at the heart of this history.
After Germany invaded Yugoslavia in 1941, Pavelic led a pro-Nazi dictatorship that controlled a newly independent Croatia.
The archbishop of Zagreb, a fervent anti-Communist, initially embraced the Pavelic government as ``God's hand at work.''
But as evidence mounted of atrocities against Serbs, Jews and other minorities, the archbishop withdrew his support.
By 1942 he began denouncing Ustashe excesses, once in a letter to Pavelic and, in 1943, in church homilies and letters to priests.
Arrested by Tito's forces in 1946, the archbishop was given a show trial, jailed and put under house arrest in 1951.
Pope Pius XII later made him a cardinal.
The Vatican and many historians credit him with saving hundreds of Jews and Serbs, but his critics maintain that by not speaking out more, he in effect supported the Ustashe regime.
To Serbs he has long been a symbol of Catholic priests' cooperation with the Ustashe.
A week before the pope left Rome, the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Paris asked the Vatican to delay beatification of the cardinal until historians could give the case further study.
The request infuriated Croatian officials as well as the Vatican.
In Croatia, Jews expressed resignation.
``There is no question he saved hundreds of Jews and others,'' said Slavko Goldstein, leader of the Jews in Croatia, who number about 2,000.
He described the cardinal's record as mixed.
``He tried to correct some of the worst aspects, but he never condemned the regime as such,'' Goldstein said.
He expressed regret that the beatification _ linked entirely to the cardinal's resistance to Communism _ was unlikely to prompt Croats to examine a wartime past clouded in myth.
``This will not clarify the period of World War II,'' Goldstein added.
``Croatian society has yet to deal with something that Germans have dealt with successfully.''
At a seaside mass here Pope John Paul II called for reconciliation throughout the former Yugoslavia and urged the world to do more for the victims of the Balkan war that ended not long ago in Croatia and that has most recently raged in Kosovo.
``How could we not recall with anxious concern the continuing tragedy taking place in nearby Kosovo?''
the pope asked from a vast podium built to look like a ship's prow before hundreds of thousands of believers squeezed along the shore and onto boats bobbing in the water.
``May understanding, mutual respect, forgiveness and reconciliation at last take the place of violence and destruction.''
He urged the international community to ``not fail to provide its timely help.''
The pope's visit was joyously welcomed by Croats and the nationalist government of President Franjo Tudjman.
Tudjman's popularity has waned even among Catholics under his strong-armed leadership and the country's economic and social troubles.
The archbishop of Zagreb, Monsignor Josip Bozanic, 49, who was appointed a year ago, has frequently spoken out against corruption in the government and other failings.
The Croatian president took every opportunity to place himself at the pope's side during the three-day visit.
He had a private audience on Saturday afternoon in his residential palace in Zagreb, a modernist glass-and-brick house built for Tito in the 1950s.
But the pope did not give his host a blank check.
At the mass, and later in his farewell remarks at the airport, John Paul II rather pointedly called on Croats to make ``society and its civil institutions more democratic'' in a country that is rarely described as open and free.
``After long years of dictatorship and the terrible experiences of violence which the peoples of this region have undergone,'' the pontiff said at the airport, ``it is now necessary to make every effort to construct a democracy based on the moral values inscribed in the very nature of the human being.''
For much of the visit, however, the pope's attention was focused on another, more remote conflict, namely the Catholic Church's struggle against Communism during the Cold War, which the Polish-born pope experienced first-hand.
The pope arrived in Croatia, a country of 4 million that is more than 75 percent Catholic, on Friday to beatify one of Croatia's national heros, Cardinal Alojzije Stepinac, who was persecuted by Tito after World War II and died under house arrest in 1960.
Beatification is the final step before sainthood, and the homage was highly controversial.
Though many historians say that Stepinac helped save the lives of hundreds of Jews and others during the war, he was tried as a Nazi collaborator by the Communists.
He is still viewed by Orthodox Serbs as the symbol of the Croatian Catholic Church's complicity with the Ustashe, the World War II fascist regime that killed tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of Serbs, Jews and other minorities.
The Tudjman government has sought to rehabilitate the Ustashe regime as the founder of the modern, independent Croatian state.
Croatia's centuries-old Serbian minority has mostly left or been driven out of Tudjman's state.
In 1994, when the pope made his first papal visit to Croatia, the country was still in the throes of a war started when Croatia broke away from Yugoslavia in 1991 and lost a third of its territory to Serbs.
Earlier this year, the United Nations returned control of the last Serb-dominated area in Croatia, Eastern Slavonia, to the Croatian government.
Prosperity has not yet returned along with the fragile peace.
As the pope lamented Croatia's tragic past and uncertain present, he also reminded Catholics not to follow the West too closely in its search for a better future.
At a meeting with the Croatian Bishop's Conference after the Sunday mass, John Paul II reminded Croatian church leaders to keep followers in line.
``Today, in the new democratic climate, it is necessary to give strong support to the new evangelization, so that the human person, the family and society as a whole will not be harmed and fall into the trap of consumerism and hedonism'' the pope said.
In late 1998 the centrist government of Turkey led by Mesut Yilmaz collapsed in a corruption scandal.
President Demirel approached Recai Kutan, leader of a pro-Islamic party with the most seats in parliament, to lead a new government.
Kutan demurred from even being part of the new government.
Next Demirel talked with Yilmaz rival, Tansu Ciller, leader of a center-right party tainted by the same corruption charges.
Ciller endorsed a broad-based coalition.
Bulent Ecevit, leader of a left-center party, then declared for a coalition with Yilmaz and Ciller.
Demirel scheduled a meeting with Ecevit, suggesting that Ecevit might be the next Prime Minister.
The Turkish government of Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz fell after mob-tie allegations.
Turkey's constitution mandates a secular republic despite its Muslim majority.
Military and secular leaders pressured President Demirel to keep the Islamic-oriented Virtue Party on the fringe.
Business leaders feared Virtue would alienate the EU.
Virtue's leader ceded its right as Parliament's largest party to lead the government.
Bulent Ecevit, leader of the Democratic Left Party and former PM, asked Yilmaz and True Path Party head Tansu Ciller to join him in a secular coalition, creating a large Parliamentary majority.
A political vacuum risked Islamic ascension and endangered a Kurdish rebel's extradition.
Demirel was expected to name Ecevit PM.
On December 2, 1998, Turkish President Demirel was expected to ask former Deputy  Premier Ecevit to create a new government with a secular coalition of his Democratic Left party and two center-right parties.
The last government fell on November 25, following a no confidence vote and rumors that Prime Minister Yilmza had mafia ties.
Demirel did not call on the Islamic Virtue party, even though it held the most seats  in Parliament, the traditional qualification to form a new government.
He turned  instead to Turkey's strong military and pro-western secular leadership.
Virtue  conceded the role, calling any government interim since the next election will be  in April.
Turkish President Demirel will meet Deputy Premier Ecevit, fueling speculation  that Ecevit will lead the government following Prime Minister Yilmazi's ouster  over corruption charges.
Ecevit proposed a new secular coalition combining his  party with those headed by Yilmaz and former premier Ciller.
Reportedly, Ecevit  is supported by Turkey's powerful, pro-Western military.
Traditionally, the  Islamic Virtue Party would establish the new government since it holds the most  seats in Parliament, but the constitution mandates a strictly secular republic.
Furthermore, the military would not support an Islamic government.
The government  crisis comes during negotiations with Italy to extradite PKK rebel leader, Ocalan.
Turkey's government collapsed Wednesday after losing a confidence vote in parliament over a corruption scandal that tainted the prime minister with allegations of mob ties.
The downfall of Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz and his nearly 17-month-old government could push Turkey toward another crisis between Western-oriented forces and pro-Islamic supporters.
&UR; MORE
Turkey's president began trying to construct a new government Wednesday but the pieces do not neatly fit: pro-Islamic forces pressing for power and their military-backed, Western-style opponents struggling to unite.
President Suleyman Demirel opened talks with party leaders just hours after the corruption-battered coalition of Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz lost a confidence vote in parliament.
It was Turkey's fourth government to collapse since 1995.
Demirel's meeting agenda clearly showed the potential difficulties ahead in a nation with a growing Islamic movement but a fiercely protected tradition of Western and secular principles.
One of his first meetings was with the leader of the largest bloc in parliament: the Islamic-oriented Virtue Party, which seeks to instill greater Muslim codes and values in Turkey.
Traditionally, the job of forming a new government goes to the head of parliament's largest party.
But Demirel is under heavy pressure from the armed forces and secular political leaders to keep Virtue on the fringe.
Such rumblings from the military are taken seriously in Turkey, where the generals view themselves as guardians of the Western orientation.
The military has already helped push out one Islamic-led government last year in what's been called a ``soft coup'' _ which cleared the way for Yilmaz's coalition.
And the generals have warned they could do it again.
Many business leaders fear a Virtue-led government could be another setback to Turkey's attempts to draw closer to the European Union.
``It's not very likely that Virtue will get a shot forming a government,'' said Ilter Turan, a professor of political affairs at Bilgi University in Istanbul.
Turan speculated there is a ``state of disarray and changing ideology'' within Virtue, formed after its predecessor, Welfare, was outlawed by the government for allegedly undermining secular values.
Turan believes Virtue is in the process of trying to expand its base beyond the urban poor and strict Muslims.
Some Virtue backers now attend functions where alcohol is consumed and women in Western dress are among the party ranks.
``They are looking ahead to the next elections,'' said Turan.
Virtue officials say they don't want to wait until the next general elections in April.
A senior Virtue official, Nevzat Yalcintas, insisted the party ``must lead'' the next government.
On the other side, the Western-style parties may seek to suspend their ceaseless feuds and unite in a coalition until elections.
A truce, however, is not so easy.
The most likely alliance, analysts say, could be led by Yilmaz and his longtime rival, former Prime Minster Tansu Ciller.
But their animosity runs deep.
Also, both Yilmaz's and Mrs. Ciller's parties have been tainted by a widening corruption scandal that includes allegations of power abuse and links to organized crime.
The weight of the accusations brought down Yilmaz's nearly 17-month-old coalition in the confidence vote in parliament, where opponents carried a convincing 314-214 margin.
Yilmaz has been accused of ties with organized crime and rigging the privatization of a state-run bank by securing loans for a businessman linked to a mafia boss.
Yilmaz has denied any links to criminal gangs.
He is expected to remain in power in a caretaker role until a new government is formed.
The latest political reshuffling comes at a delicate time.
Turkey is waging an uphill fight for the extradition of Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, who is seeking political asylum in Italy.
The diplomatic effort and public protests have strained Turkey's relationships with the European Union.
Nearly 37,000 people have been killed in the 14-year battle between Turkish forces and Kurdish rebels seeking autonomy in southeastern Turkey.
(bm-za)
The head of Turkey's pro-Islamic party said Thursday he would not insist on his rightful chance to lead Turkey's next government, heading off a confrontation with the military that would only deepen the nation's political crisis.
Parliament toppled Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz's 17-month-old government Wednesday in a no-confidence vote over a mafia scandal, setting off a furious round of deal-making among pro-secular parties to piece together a new governing coalition.
``The no-confidence vote has dragged Turkey into grave political chaos,'' Yilmaz declared.
By tradition, the job of establishing a new government should go to the Islamic Virtue Party since it is has the most seats in Parliament.
Few believe the all-powerful, staunchly secular military would agree to that.
Although Turkey's people are overwhelmingly Muslim, its constitution mandates a strictly secular republic.
Within hours of the government's collapse, Virtue leader Recai Kutan met with President Suleyman Demirel, who is charged with picking a political leader who can command a governing majority in Parliament.
``We have told the president that we will not be insistent.
It's fine if we're in the new government.
It's fine if we're not,'' Kutan said.
Kutan said the next administration should be a caretaker government with the support of all parties, which would lead the country until the next national elections.
Turkey's generals pressured the nation's first Islamic-led government out of office last year, after it came to power in a coalition with former Premier Tansu Ciller.
Mrs. Ciller, head of the center-right True Path Party and a key contender for power, was meeting with Demirel later Thursday.
Newspapers reported that Mrs. Ciller was already in contact with Virtue in pursuit of a possible alliance.
The party denied the reports.
No party has a majority in parliament.
Analysts consider Mrs. Ciller's True Path capable of fitting into any pro-secular coalition in the political system, deeply divided by political rivalry.
Turkish politics have been torn in the 1990s between the choice of an Islamic-led government or fragile, pro-secular coalitions.
Even if the secular establishment succeeds in pushing aside Virtue, it would be difficult to put together a government without Mrs. Ciller's backing.
Mrs. Ciller, who commands 99 deputies in the 550-seat parliament, declared that she would act in a ``constructive manner'' either by being part of a coalition government or by extending outside support to a minority government.
One scenario suggests she may join forces with Yilmaz, long her rival.
Demirel said it would take four or five days before he completes consultations with party leaders and designates a premier.
Yilmaz, meanwhile, serves as caretaker premier.
Elections are scheduled for April 18.
Yilmaz has urged they be held earlier.
Parliament opened an investigation Thursday into the allegations that toppled Yilmaz _ that he had ties to Turkey's mafia and rigged the sale of a state bank.
(ht-sf-ek)
The head of Turkey's pro-Islamic party said Thursday he would not insist on his rightful chance to lead Turkey's next government, heading off a confrontation with the military that would only deepen the nation's political crisis.
Parliament toppled Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz's 17-month-old government Wednesday in a no-confidence vote over a mafia scandal, setting off a furious round of deal-making among pro-secular parties to piece together a new governing coalition.
``The no-confidence vote has dragged Turkey into grave political chaos,'' Yilmaz declared.
By tradition, the job of establishing a new government should go to the Islamic Virtue Party since it has the most seats in Parliament.
Few believe the all-powerful, staunchly secular military would agree to that.
Although Turkey's people are overwhelmingly Muslim, its constitution mandates a strictly secular republic.
Within hours of the government's collapse, Virtue leader Recai Kutan met with President Suleyman Demirel, who is charged with picking a political leader who can command a governing majority in Parliament.
``We have told the president that we will not be insistent.
It's fine if we're in the new government.
It's fine if we're not,'' Kutan said.
Kutan said the next administration should be a caretaker government with the support of all parties, which would lead the country until the next national elections.
Turkey's generals pressured the nation's first Islamic-led government out of office last year, after it came to power in a coalition with former Premier Tansu Ciller.
Mrs. Ciller, head of the center-right True Path Party and a key contender for power, said after meeting with Demirel later Thursday that she favored a strong, ``broad-based'' coalition capable of tackling problems until the elections.
She would not elaborate.
Newspapers reported that Mrs. Ciller was already in contact with Virtue in pursuit of a possible alliance.
The party denied the reports.
No party has a majority in parliament.
Analysts consider Mrs. Ciller's True Path capable of fitting into any pro-secular coalition in the political system, deeply divided by political rivalry.
Turkish politics have been torn in the 1990s between the choice of an Islamic-led government or fragile, pro-secular coalitions.
Even if the secular establishment succeeds in pushing aside Virtue, it would be difficult to put together a government without Mrs. Ciller's backing.
``We are open to any kind of proposal.
We will act constructively,'' Mrs. Ciller, who commands 99 deputies in the 550-seat parliament, told reporters.
One scenario suggests she may join forces with Yilmaz, long her rival.
Demirel said it would be four or five days before he completes consultations with party leaders and designates a premier.
Yilmaz, meanwhile, serves as caretaker premier.
Elections are scheduled for April 18.
Yilmaz has urged they be held earlier.
Parliament opened investigations Thursday into the allegations that toppled Yilmaz _ that he had ties to Turkey's mafia and rigged the sale of a state bank - and one other into alleged irregularity in the sale of cellular telephone licenses.
The head of Turkey's pro-Islamic party said Thursday he would not insist on his rightful chance to lead Turkey's next government, heading off a confrontation with the military that would only deepen the nation's political crisis.
Parliament toppled Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz's 17-month-old government Wednesday in a no-confidence vote over a mafia scandal, setting off a furious round of deal-making among pro-secular parties to piece together a new governing coalition.
``The no-confidence vote has dragged Turkey into grave political chaos,'' Yilmaz declared.
By tradition, the job of establishing a new government should go to the Islamic Virtue Party since it has the most seats in Parliament.
Few believe the all-powerful, staunchly secular military would agree to that.
Although Turkey's people are overwhelmingly Muslim, its constitution mandates a strictly secular republic.
Within hours of the government's collapse, Virtue leader Recai Kutan met with President Suleyman Demirel, who is charged with picking a political leader who can command a governing majority in Parliament.
``We have told the president that we will not be insistent.
It's fine if we're in the new government.
It's fine if we're not,'' Kutan said.
Kutan said the next administration should be a caretaker government with the support of all parties, which would lead the country until the next national elections.
Turkey's generals pressured the nation's first Islamic-led government out of office last year, after it came to power in a coalition with former Premier Tansu Ciller.
Mrs. Ciller, head of the center-right True Path Party and a key contender for power, said after meeting with Demirel later Thursday that she favored a strong, ``broad-based'' coalition capable of tackling problems until the elections.
She would not elaborate.
Bulent Ecevit, the deputy premier in the outgoing government and leader of a center-left party, declared himself in favor of a coalition between Yilmaz and Mrs Ciller.
He also indicated that he was willing to take part in that alliance.
Some reports have suggested a scenario in which Ecevit would head a three-party alliance with Yilmaz and Mrs. Ciller as the most likely option.
Newspapers reported, 11th graf pvs
One of Turkey's leading politicians warned Sunday that a political vacuum could cripple the domestic battle to keep Islamists at bay and in the fight abroad for the extradition of a Kurdish rebel leader.
In the midst of Turkey's uphill battle to get Italy to hand over a Kurdish rebel leader, the government collapsed Wednesday under the weight of corruption scandals.
No party has a majority to govern alone in the deeply divided parliament.
Acting Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit on Sunday called on Turkey's two center-right parties, led by arch-rivals acting Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz and former Premier Tansu Ciller, to join him in a governing coalition.
``To deal with internal and foreign questions, Turkey needs, as soon as possible, a solid and healthy government,'' Bulent Ecevit told reporters.
Ecevit, leader of the Democratic Left Party, warned that the Islamists might return to power if secular parties don't cooperate.
The military last year forced out the country's first Islamic-led government.
The Islamic party, Virtue, is the largest party in parliament.
The military gets a chance Monday to have its say when it meets with President Suleyman Demirel and the acting cabinet.
It is up to Demirel to name a new premier.
Ecevit also said a political vacuum could hamper Turkey's campaign to get Italy to extradite Abdullah Ocalan.
Ocalan leads the autonomy-seeking Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, which has been at war with the Turkish army in the southeast for 14 years.
Italy is refusing to extradite Ocalan because he could face the death penalty.
Ocalan has asked for political asylum, which has enraged Turkey.
But Italian Premier Massimo D'Alema suggested Italy might instead expel the rebel leader, who tried to enter Italy using a false passport.
``Asylum has to be examined with great seriousness because Ocalan is accused of grave crimes and is accused of carrying out terrorist acts even in Germany,'' D'Alema told Italian state television on Saturday night.
Ocalan was arrested at the Rome airport on Nov. 12 after arriving from Moscow.
Turkey and Germany both have warrants out on him.
(ht-cph)
One of Turkey's leading politicians warned Sunday that a political vacuum could cripple the domestic battle to keep Islamists at bay and the fight abroad for the extradition of a Kurdish rebel leader.
In the midst of Turkey's uphill battle to get Italy to hand over a Kurdish rebel leader, the government collapsed Wednesday under the weight of corruption scandals.
No party has a majority to govern alone in the deeply divided parliament.
Acting Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit on Sunday called on Turkey's two center-right parties, led by arch-rivals acting Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz and former Premier Tansu Ciller, to join him in a governing coalition.
``To deal with internal and foreign questions, Turkey needs, as soon as possible, a solid and healthy government,'' Bulent Ecevit told reporters.
Ecevit, leader of the Democratic Left Party, warned that the Islamists might return to power if secular parties don't cooperate.
The military last year forced out the country's first Islamic-led government.
The Islamic party, Virtue, is the largest party in parliament.
The military gets a chance Monday to have its say when it meets with Demirel and the acting cabinet.
It is up to Demirel, who met Sunday with Yilmaz for a second time, to name the new premier.
&UR; Ecevit also, 8th graf pvs
Turkey's secular military leadership warned a pro-Islamic party Monday against dragging the army into politics, after its leader said the party has the backing of the army in forming a new government 	Recai Kutan, leader of Islamic Virtue Party, was quoted by the daily Milliyet on Saturday as saying that they were receiving signals that the army liked the party's new moderate tone.
``It is out of question for the armed forces to express whether it likes the tone of a political party or not,'' the general staff said in a statement.
``Everyone should refrain from making comments that would drag the armed forces into politics.''
Kutan's Virtue Party is the successor of another Islamic party, Welfare, which was forced to step down from power by the military last year after it tried to increase the influence of Islam in society.
Welfare was banned earlier this year for anti-secular activities.
A pro-secular alliance replaced Welfare, but it collapsed last week over corruption charges,.
Traditionally, the job of forming a new government should go to Kutan, as his party has the largest number of seats in Parliament.
However, President Suleyman Demirel has not given any indication that he would designate him.
No party has the votes to govern alone.
Turkish President Suleyman Demirel planned to meet with Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit on Wednesday, stoking speculation that he'd ask the center-left leader to form a new government.
Ecevit is said to have the support of Turkey's all-powerful military and most analysts say he is the is the most viable replacement for Mesut Yilmaz, who was ousted in a no-confidence vote last week over a mafia scandal.
Daily Milliyet said Demirel was likely to announce his choice before leaving Thursday for a one-day trip to Romania.
By tradition, the leader of the largest party in parliament would get the nod.
But the largest party is Islamic Virtue, which is opposed by the military.
Last year, the military ousted Turkey's first Islamic-led government.
Ecevit said he didn't want Virtue in the government and reiterated his proposal for a new secular coalition combining his Democratic Left party with Turkey's two center-right parties.
The coalition would have a large majority in Parliament.
He said Wednesday that he opposes joining forces with Virtue because of ``our commitment to secularism without concessions.''
The veteran politician could act as the glue between Yilmaz and former premier Tansu Ciller, whose long-standing political rivalry led to a government collapse in 1996.
Ecevit is said to have Yilmaz' support, but there are doubts about Mrs. Ciller.
General elections are scheduled for April 18.
(ht-cph)
The government of Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz, plagued since its inception 17 months ago by competing pressures from Islamic groups and the rigidly secular military, lost a vote of confidence in Parliament and fell Wednesday.
The 314-214 vote came after Yilmaz was implicated in a corruption scandal in which he is said to have helped gangsters buy a state-owned bank.
He has denied all charges against him.
President Suleyman Demirel was expected to ask Yilmaz to stay on as prime minister until an interim government can be formed to take the country to an early election in April.
But with both Turkey's center-right and center-left parties divided by bitter rivalries, there seemed little prospect that a stable government could emerge from the election.
As a result, the military is likely to retain ultimate political power here.
Its commanders view themselves as the final bulwark against religious fundamentalism.
Critics, however, say their political role restricts the growth of democracy.
After two years of spectacular revelations about ties between criminals and successive Turkish governments, many Turks have become deeply cynical about politics.
Some believe that supporting the Islamic party is the best way to show their disgust with the political establishment.
Military commanders, however, may not allow the party to come to power even if it wins the election.
Yilmaz had sought to ease military-backed restrictions on Islamic symbols, which he evidently believed were too strict and risked creating a political backlash.
He urged the military to stop insisting that female university students be forbidden to wear head scarves, but powerful generals quickly slapped him down.
Similar conflicts are likely to afflict the next government.
Demirel could name an interim prime minister within a few days.
According to press reports, leading candidates include Hikmet Cetin, the speaker of parliament, and former Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit.
During his term of office, Yilmaz managed to bring Turkey's inflation rate down from nearly 100 percent annually to about 77 percent.
Negotiations with the International Monetary Fund on an economic package for 1999 were to have begun Friday in New York, but were canceled Wednesday.
Gunes Taner, the Cabinet minister who was to have led Turkey's delegation, was implicated in the corruption scandal that brought down the government.
Human rights violations continued during Yilmaz's term, but apparently decreased steadily.
The human rights organization Amnesty International recently praised the steps he took to curb abuses.
Although Yilmaz was not able to push through major reforms to a political system that many Turks believe is encrusted and self-centered, he will be remembered as the prime minister on whose watch the country's most-wanted fugitive was captured.
The fugitive, Abdullah Ocalan, who leads a rebel army that has been fighting for a Kurdish homeland in southeastern Turkey, is in custody in Italy.
Although Yilmaz is perceived as pro-Western, Turkey's relations with Europe deteriorated during his term.
After the European Union refused to name Turkey as a candidate for membership last year, Yilmaz reacted with a bitterness that alienated some European leaders.
Relations seemed to be improving until the capture of Ocalan last month.
When Italian leaders refused to extradite him for trial in Turkey, Yilmaz and other Turks accused Italy of embracing terrorism and threatened it with an economic boycott.
The Yilmaz government was fragile from the start, depending on the support of Deniz Baykal, a power broker who controls a faction in Parliament but declined to join the ruling coalition.
When Baykal withdrew his support several weeks ago, the government's fate was sealed.
Baykal acted after a series of charges that cast doubt on the government's integrity.
The charges stemmed from a complex scandal that has been spreading for the last two years.
It is centered around allegations that Turkish leaders have for years maintained ties to gangsters, using them to commit political murders and allowing them in return to smuggle drugs and weapons.
The charge that brought down the government Wednesday was based on testimony from an alleged Turkish crime boss who is being held in France.
He released audiotapes suggesting that Yilmaz and Taner helped one of his front men buy a bank from the government.
Yilmaz was installed in June 1997 after the military pressured Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, leader of the Islamic party, into resigning from office.
But his government was not able to agree on a strategy to counter rising Islamic influence here.
Polls suggest that if an election were held today, the Islamic party would finish strongly and perhaps even in first place, as it did in the last election in 1996.
Leaders of secular parties are expected to try to patch together an electoral alliance in the hope of heading off another victory by the Islamic party.
Yilmaz has said he will campaign on the strength of his government's economic successes and its role in the capture of Ocalan.
He is also anxious to clear his name.
``It will be the people who will very soon make the real judgment about our government,'' he said after Wednesday's vote.
Beginning November 16, a frigid Arctic air mass brought unusually cold weather lasting several weeks to most of Europe.
Below normal temperatures were experienced in France, Romania, Bulgaria, Poland and Russia.
Rare snowfall occurred in southern Italy.
Throughout Poland, Europe's most affected country, the death toll reached 85.
Most deaths were blamed on homelessness and drinking alcohol.
In Russian, at least 39 people died in Moscow alone; an addition 143 people were hospitalized with hypothermia and 51 with frostbite.
Throughout Europe transportation was disrupted and weather related accidents occurred.
The prolonged sub-zero temperatures made this Europe's coldest November in many, many years.
A killer cold wave hit much of Europe in November 1998, lasting more than four weeks in some areas.
Romania and Poland suffered most.
France, Bulgaria, Italy, Croatia and Russia also experienced bitter cold.
Temperatures reached as low as minus 26 degrees Celsius.
In Romania cold and blizzard conditions closed major roadways, and dozens of trains were canceled.
Communities were without electricity.
The death toll was staggering.
At least 39 died in Moscow.
The death toll in Poland reached 85 in the four weeks after 16 November.
Some died in storm-related accidents.
Most victims were homeless, or those suffering from alcoholism.
An arctic cold wave, the worst in 10 years, hit parts of Europe, bringing  sub-zero temperatures and killing scores of people.
Hardest hit were Poland,  Bulgaria, and Romania as well as parts of central and eastern France.
In Poland,  three weeks of sub-zero temperatures killed at least 85 people in November, 29  more than in all of the previous winter.
Most of the victims were homeless whose  deaths by exposure were alcohol related.
Blizzards and cold temperatures also hit  Bulgaria and Romania, stranding hundreds in their cars.
Elsewhere, snow blanketed  the Italian island of Capri for the first time in 10 years.
An Arctic cold wave brought unusually cold November weather across Europe.
Southern Italy experienced snowfall and even Moscow, noted for cold weather, felt the wrath of the early cold spell.
Many deaths were attributed to the cold with Poland apparently the hardest hit.
The death toll there was greatest among the homeless, especially those who passed out drinking alcohol.
In all, 85 deaths there were due to the cold where temperatures dipped as low as minus 26 degrees Celsius.
Frostbite and hypothermia sent many to the hospital.
Rail schedules throughout Europe were disrupted, ports were closed and many autos were stranded on snow-covered highways.
An Arctic cold wave that hit Poland a week ago has killed 32 people, police said Monday.
Most of the victims were middle-aged men who had been drinking alcohol and passed out in the cold, according to Grazyna Puchalska of the national police headquarters.
Other victims included homeless people, according to police.
Temperatures in central and eastern Poland over the weekend were as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
The lowest temperature reported was minus 26 Celsius (minus 15 Fahrenheit) early Sunday in Ostroleka in northeast Poland.
The cold wave hit on Nov. 16, making it one of the coldest Novembers in Poland in recent years.
Weather forecasters predict higher temperatures in the next few days.
An Arctic cold wave and accompanying blizzards have killed at least 62 people throughout Europe, police and media reported Monday.
The early winter weather played a role in at least 24 deaths in Romania and Bulgaria over the past three days.
In Poland, 32 people died, most of them homeless or others who passed out in the cold after drinking alcohol, police said.
Temperatures in central and eastern Poland over the weekend were as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
The lowest temperature reported was minus 26 Celsius (minus 15 Fahrenheit) early Sunday in Ostroleka in northeast Poland.
The cold wave hit on Nov. 16, making it one of the coldest Novembers in Poland in recent years.
Weather forecasters predict higher temperatures in the next few days.
In Romania, at least 21 people died from the cold and in weather-related accidents on snow-covered roads since Friday.
Temperatures plunged to 14 early today.
About 200 people spent more than 48 hours stranded in their cars after winds whipped snowdrifts across main highways in southern Romania.
Army vehicles rescued most drivers but six people froze to death over the weekend after being trapped in their cars.
Dozens of trains were canceled and 200 communities were reported to be without electricity, the Libertatea newspaper reported Monday.
Some 15 major roads were blocked by snowdrifts as high as 1.5 meters (five feet).
Police urged drivers not to travel in snowy areas.
In Bucharest, dozens of cars smashed into other vehicles and skidded in the icy conditions.
The Emergency Hospital in Bucharest said it treated 80 people for fractures and frostbite over the weekend.
In France, the death toll from the cold snap rose Monday to six people, three of them homeless men.
Fountains in front of the Eiffel Tower in Paris were completely frozen, and in Mouthe, in eastern France, temperatures fell Monday morning to minus 21 Celsius (minus 6 F).
In Bulgaria, three people died in the northwestern region of Montana, the daily 24 Chassa reported Monday.
Some highways were blocked and some areas were without power, phones and running water.
The Black Sea ports of Burgas in Bulgaria and Constanta in Romania were closed Monday due to storms, state radio reported.
&UR; Eds: UPDATES with four more deaths in Poland 	&UR; AP Photo 	&UR; By ALISON MUTLER &QC;  	&UR; Associated Press Writer &QC;  	BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) _ An Arctic cold wave and accompanying blizzards have killed at least 65 people throughout Europe, police and media reported Monday.
The weather played a role in at least 24 deaths in Romania and Bulgaria over the past three days.
In Poland, 36 people died, most of them homeless or others who passed out in the cold after drinking alcohol, police said.
Earlier police said 32 people throughout Poland had died of cold exposure thus far, but by evening more deaths were reported.
A man was found in Debin, near Czestochowa, some 217 kilometers (134 miles) south of Warsaw and two men were found dead near Lodz, 133 kilometers (82 miles) southwest of Warsaw.
A report on the fourth death was incomplete, police said.
Temperatures in, 3rd graf pvs
Krzysztof Chmiel knows about being homeless and drinking, so his explanation for the 47 deaths as of Wednesday in Poland's Arctic cold wave sounds plausible.
``They drink methylated spirit and then drop dead,'' said the 46-year-old Chmiel, bundled up in a long, heavy coat at a Warsaw homeless shelter.
``Methylated spirit warms you up really quickly, but you also cool down quickly.''
The frigid Arctic air that moved in last week has claimed more than 90 lives across Europe, including 30 in Romania and some in France, Bulgaria and Italy.
Croatia reported its first cold-related death Wednesday, a woman who lived alone in an unheated house.
Temperatures have dropped well below freezing, with minus 26 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit) recorded in Poland on Sunday.
On Wednesday, Poland's low was minus 12 Celsius (10 Fahrenheit).
Romania recorded minus 10 Celsius (14 Fahrenheit) as blizzards swept across its southeast on Tuesday.
&UR; Poland has, 4th graf
Unusually cold weather in Moscow killed at least 39 people in November, medical officials said on Monday.
Winter has come early to the Russian capital this year, with temperatures below freezing through most of the month.
Since the beginning of October, 45 people have died of hypothermia, the city ambulance service said, according to the Interfax news agency.
In addition, 143 people were hospitalized with hypothermia and 51 with frostbite, it said.
One man was injured by a falling icicle, but he was not hospitalized.
Cold claims dozens of lives in Moscow each winter.
The majority of victims are homeless people or alcoholics who pass out on the street.
Two more victims of Poland's prolonged cold front were found Thursday, raising the death toll from more than two weeks of freezing temperatures to at least 74.
Police said a 40-year-old man was found frozen to death in central Poland on Thursday morning.
A second man was found overnight in Elblag province in northern Poland, near Gdansk.
Most victims have been the homeless or men who passed out from drinking.
The cold front arrived on Nov. 16 with temperatures dipping as low as minus 26 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
It already has claimed 20 more lives than the number of cold-related deaths in all of last winter, police say.
Two more victims of Poland's prolonged cold front were found Thursday, raising the death toll from more than two weeks of freezing temperatures to at least 74.
Police said a 40-year-old man was found frozen to death in central Poland on Thursday morning.
A second man was found overnight in Elblag province in northern Poland, near Gdansk.
Most victims have been the homeless or men who passed out from drinking.
The cold front arrived on Nov. 16 with temperatures dipping as low as minus 26 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
It already has claimed 20 more lives than the number of cold-related deaths in all of last winter, police say.
The death toll from almost three weeks of sub-zero temperatures has reached 83, after a homeless man froze to death in a Warsaw park.
The man, identified only as Adam S., 47, was discovered Friday night, police said.
Poland's extreme cold began Nov. 16, with temperatures dropping to minus 26 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
Police say the number of cold-related deaths in recent weeks is 29 more than the number for all of last winter, with most victims homeless or passed out from alcohol.
&UR; (ms-aet)
The death toll from almost three weeks of sub-zero temperatures reached 85 on Saturday, after two men froze to death in their unheated homes in northeastern Poland.
Both victims, ages 36 and 49, were from towns near the city of Bialystok.
Both drank alcohol before going to sleep, police said.
Poland's extreme cold began Nov. 16, with temperatures dropping to minus 26 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit).
Police say the number of cold-related deaths in recent weeks is 29 more than the number for all of last winter.
Many of the victims were homeless, and most had been drinking alcohol, which lowers the body temperature.
On Friday, a man identified as Adam S., 47, was found frozen to death in a Warsaw park.
&UR; (ms-aet)
NATIONAL FORECAST &QL; 	Inclement weather will affect parts of the Northeast on Thursday as developing low pressure lifts Atlantic moisture across the region.
Wet snow will fall in northern Maine and on the high ground of northern New Hampshire and Vermont.
The snow will accumulate several inches in some areas.
Farther south, mixed precipitation will turn to rain in central New England as breezes from the southeast usher warmer air into the area.
Periods of heavy rain will fall in southern New England, punctuated by rumbles of thunder.
Morning showers will give way to drying breezes and breaking clouds during the afternoon in the Middle Atlantic States.
Indeed, temperatures will remain mild in the wake of the storm system, as Arctic chill remains north of the Canadian border.
Sunshine and warmth will cover much of the Plains and Southeast.
Expansive high pressure centered over Arkansas will prompt readings in the 60s and 70s from the western Dakotas to North Carolina.
Meanwhile, clouds and breezes from the northwest will keep the Great Lakes States more seasonal.
The relentless parade of Pacific storms will plague the Northwest as pockets of cold air aloft rotate into the region.
Spates of gusty winds and heavy rain will accompany intense showers in coastal areas.
As the showers move into the Cascades, heavy snow will fall above 3,000 feet.
Lighter showers will fall in the valleys east of the mountains.
Elsewhere, the Southwest will remain mostly sunny and warm with a few clouds in the mountains of Utah and Nevada.
Focus: European Cold Wave 	On Sunday, snow whitened parts of Capri off the coast of southern Italy, the Mediterranean islandUs first snowfall in ten years.
Meanwhile, as much as 16 inches of snow capped Mt. Vesuvius as an unusually cold air mass invaded western Europe on chilly winds from the east.
Closer to the center of the frigid air mass, temperatures plunged to minus 2 degrees Fahrenheit in Moscow on Nov. 17, prompting Russian meteorologists to declare the mid-November outbreak the coldest in 20 years.
If steering winds shift and blow across the North Pole from Russia, the chill would invade Canada.
Typhoon Babs slammed into the Philippines in mid-October killing at least 150  people, injuring hundreds, and forcing hundreds of thousands to abandon homes  damaged or destroyed by winds, floods, and landslides.
Worst hit was a  coconut-producing area whose damage toll subsequently caused a significant  localized rise in cooking oil prices and contributed to inflationary pressures.
Fund-raising campaigns began with a one-year salary donation by the Philippine's  president.
The powerful storm also brought torrential rains and landslides to Taiwan  where floods forced hundreds from their homes.
Hong Kong was lashed with strong winds,  forcing authorities to open shelters and close beaches.
Supertyphoon Babs, on the heels of Supertyphoon Zeb, brought heavy winds and rain to the Philippines, first hitting Catanduanes Island Thursday and stalling there 12 hours.
Landslides and drownings killed at least 156.
400,000 were driven from their homes.
The two typhoons destroyed $100 million in crops, including abaca and coconut.
President Estrada ordered riverside slums evacuated, facilitated emergency fund use and price freezing, and started a typhoon-victim fund.
Heading toward southern China, Babs strengthened to sustained winds of 81 mph and gusts up to 100 mph.
It brought torrential rains, flooding, and landslides to Taiwan and strong winds to Hong Kong before weakening to a severe tropical storm Sunday night.
Typhoon Babs hit the Philippine Islands on October 21, 1998, with 150 mph winds  causing flooding, landsides, and flying debris.
Hundreds of thousands had to flee  their homes, 156 were killed, and $100 million worth of crops were damaged.
Parts of the northern and central areas were declared a "state of calamity", and,  on October 29, a fund-raising campaign to aid the victims was begun.
After leaving  the Philippines, Babs moved over the South China Sea, hitting Taiwan on the 25th  with heavy rains and winds and pushing strong winds into Hong Kong.
Later in the  day, Babs weakened to a severe tropical storm.
Cooking oil prices rose sharply in the Philippines on speculation that copra  production will decline due to the effects of el Nino and recent typhoons on  coconut crops.
Typhoon Babs, which caused 151 fatalities and forced 400,000  people from their homes, was particularly destructive in the Bicol region, a  large coconut-production area.
After Babs, President Estrada declared four provinces  and a city to be calamity zones, eligible for emergency funds.
He also jump-started  a fund for victims of the typhoons with a contribution equivalent to his yearly  salary.
Babs subsequently swept through Taiwan, triggering landslides, and Hong  Kong.
Typhoon Babs headed toward southern China Friday after battering the central and northern Philippines with heavy winds and rain that killed at least 82 people, flattened crops, and drove more than 100,000 people from their homes.
The toll was expected to rise as contacts are restored with remote areas where roads were blocked by landslides and flooding, and telephone service was knocked out by strong winds.
Among the worst-hit areas was the impoverished Bicol region along the Philippines' eastern coast.
At least 53 people were killed in landslides on Catanduanes island, where Babs first hit land Thursday, Office of Civil Defense director Renato Arevalo said.
Seventeen others died in landslides in nearby Camarines Sur province, he said.
Another 102 people were injured by flying debris in Sorsogon province, also part of the Bicol region, Arevalo said.
More than 100,000 people in the area were forced to flee their homes, Red Cross officials said.
Tens of thousands of others were stranded as ports were shut and ships forbidden to sail.
The fatalities included six drownings, two people hit by falling trees, two girls buried by landslides in central Iloilo province, a man who died of shock, and a fireman crushed after his van overturned on a slippery road, officials said.
In Manila, most government offices closed at noon because of the storm.
President Joseph Estrada ordered a forced evacuation of slum dwellers living near swollen rivers.
About 15,700 people were removed from low-lying areas in the capital, officials said.
``Despite the situation, some people still refuse to leave their homes to guard their meager property,'' said Jesusa Villanueva, principal of a school being used as an evacuation center.
Some people, cradling chickens and dogs, stood on the roofs of their flooded homes, a few possessions piled next to them.
Others used tire tubes to float toward safer ground.
Hundreds of people living along a seawall near the oceanside U.S. Embassy were evacuated because of high waves.
In suburban Marikina, about 4,500 people living on the bank of the swollen Marikina River were also moved to evacuation centers.
At least 12 domestic flights and one international flight were canceled.
In northern Nueva Ecija province, more than 50 people crowded onto the roof of a house in the town of Gapan to escape Babs' floodwaters.
About 88,000 hectares (217,000 acres) of rice were destroyed in the province, officials said.
Babs also pounded areas around the Mount Pinatubo volcano with heavy rain, unleashing 1.5 meter (5 foot) -high avalanches of volcanic material from the mountain's slopes.
Most of the material was carried safely away by swollen rivers.
Late Friday, the storm was centered over the South China Sea, 140 kilometers (88 miles) west-northwest of Dagupan City in Pangasinan province, weather officials said.
It had sustained winds of 120 kph (75 mph), with gusts up to 150 kph (94 mph), and was headed toward southern China.
It was second devastating storm in the Philippines in a week.
Last week, Super Typhoon Zeb killed at least 74 people in the northern Philippines and 43 more in Taiwan and Japan.
Typhoon Babs raced toward southern China on Saturday, leaving behind a trail of destruction on the Philippines' main island where at least 129 people died and hundreds of thousands were forced to flee their homes.
Philippines President Joseph Estrada declared Catanduanes and three other other provinces and a city in the worst hit area on the southern tip of Luzon under a state of calamity.
He was expected to add more provinces to the list once the full extent of the damage was determined.
Officials in calamity zones will be able to use emergency funds and freeze prices of commodities with little red tape.
Disaster officials said the toll on lives and property would rise as telephone service is restored and roads blocked by landslides and flooding are reopened in the worst hit areas.
Typhoon Babs gained strength as it headed for southern China, packing sustained winds of 130 kph (81 mph) and gusts of up to 160 kph (100 mph), the Manila weather bureau said.
At 4 p.m. (0800 GMT), it was located about 370 kilometers (230 miles) west-northwest of Vigan in Ilocos Sur province.
Moving at 11 kph (7 mph), it is expected to be 300 kilometers (187 miles) south-southeast of Hong Kong by Sunday afternoon.
Of the 129 deaths reported so far in the Philippines, 67 were attributed to landslides on Catanduanes island where Babs first landed on Thursday, the Office of Civil Defense said.
``Catanduanes received the first punch and it was a hard hit,'' said Defense Secretary Orlando Mercado, who is overseeing the relief and rescue work.
The worst landslides hit San Miguel, a coconut and abaca-producing town along the Bato River, as residents attempted to escape rapidly rising flood waters by climbing hills behind the village.
The powerful winds flattened the abaca and tore away the leaves of the coconut trees, making them look like giant umbrellas with blown-away tops.
Virtually every house was damaged.
The dead were to be buried later Saturday in two mass graves.
``Entire families were killed,'' said Eddie Tapel, a local official.
``Many children will have to quit school because their families have no more income.''
Thirty other people died in landslides in nearby Camarines Sur province and another 102 people were injured by flying debris in Sorsogon province, both located in the impoverished Bicol region along the Philippines' eastern coast.
More than 320,000 people in the area were forced out of their homes, disaster relief officials said.
Tens of thousands of others were stranded as ports were shut and ships forbidden to sail.
The fatalities included 18 drownings, three people hit by falling trees, two people electrocuted by power lines, two children killed by a landslide in central Iloilo province, and a fireman crushed to death after his van overturned on a slippery road, officials said.
In the metropolitan Manila area, Estrada ordered at least 10,000 people living along swollen creeks and rivers out of their homes and into government shelters.
Many areas in Manila and nearby provinces were still under water early Saturday.
In Pampanga province north of the capital, 35 villages in the township of Candaba were submerged, Mayor Ben Gatus said.
Babs also pounded areas around Mount Pinatubo volcano with heavy rain, unleashing 1.5-meter (5 foot) avalanches of volcanic material from the mountain's slopes.
Most of the material was carried safely away by swollen rivers.
It was second devastating storm in the Philippines in a week.
Last week, Super Typhoon Zeb killed at least 74 people in the northern Philippines and 43 more in Taiwan and Japan.
From a distance, the smashed coconut and abaca trees scattered on the hills look like broken matchsticks _ a painful reminder of the destruction left by Typhoon Babs in Catanduanes.
The island province was the first hit by the typhoon, which stalled directly above it for nearly 12 hours.
The storm drenched the hillsides, turning them into a deadly mush that cascaded down on helpless residents seeking higher ground from the rising floodwaters.
At least 69 people from the province died, most of them buried in landslides.
Throughout the Philippines, at least 129 died.
At the height of the storm, water in the Bato River, which snakes through the hills of Catanduanes to the sea, rose more than nine meters (30 feet), reaching the ceilings of some houses.
Most of the buildings are now roofless and many are without walls.
But residents were busy Saturday repairing roofs or making makeshift shelters where their homes once stood.
Some used wire from toppled electrical lines for hanging clothes.
Everyone was drying something _ furniture, mats, clothes, rice, abaca fiber.
Others scraped mud off the floors of their homes.
Long areas of the shoreline were choked with large and small trees uprooted by the typhoon.
The bark had been scraped clean as they rolled down the mountains to the river and onto the sea.
The entire island was without electricity.
A power barge that supplied electricity to outlying towns was swept down the river and washed out to sea by the punishing wind and waves.
Eddie Tapel, a provincial council member, said entire families were killed in the landslides in San Miguel, including many of his relatives.
``Many children will have to quit school because their families have no more income,'' he said.
Many people in the area rely mostly on abaca _ a type of hemp _ coconuts and fishing for their livelihood.
The abaca trees are now destroyed, and all that is left of most of the coconut trees is the spindly fronds which Filipinos use to make garden brooms.
``In all my 61 years, I haven't experienced a more destructive typhoon,'' said San Miguel Vice Mayor Alfredo Santillan.
The last major one, he said, struck in October 1970 but passed through Catanduanes in a few hours.
That typhoon packed 275-kph (170-mph) winds and left 2,361 dead in the northern Philippines.
``We'll just have to bear it,'' Santillan said.
``We will recover, but it will take a long while.''
Typhoon Babs brought torrential rains and landslides to Taiwan and lashed Hong Kong with strong winds Sunday after killing more than 150 people in the Philippines and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless.
The Central Weather Bureau said that at 3 p.m. (0700 GMT), the typhoon was centered 120 kilometers (72 miles) southwest of Pratas Island in the South China Sea.
Packing sustained winds of 130 kph (81 mph), Babs was moving northwest at 9 kph (5.4 mph) toward south China.
Its outer fringes brought torrential rains to the whole island of Taiwan, with Hualien and several other eastern towns recording more than 500 millimeters (20 inches) of rain in 24 hours, weathermen said.
Authorities evacuated hundreds of people from their homes near flooded rivers.
In Taipei, the main Keelung River has swelled its banks.
One-third of Hsichih town was flooded in waist-high water, and much of nearby Wutu was also flooded.
Rescuers used rubber boats and trucks to evacuate residents from apartment blocks, officials said.
In eastern Ilan, a man was swept into the sea while fishing in the rough waters.
Nine people were injured when their van was hit by rockslides in eastern Taitung, police said.
Several domestic airports were closed, and landslides had halted traffic and trapped hundreds of people in mountains in central Taiwan, they said.
In Hong Kong, authorities hoisted the No. 3 typhoon signal, a warning to residents to take precautions as winds were expected to intensify later in the day.
The government said it has opened up several shelters for those seeking refuge from the storm and that more will be opened if needed.
Red flags were raised at Hong Kong beaches to warn swimmers not to enter the water because of rough seas.
Fishing boats sought shelter in the harbor.
In the Philippines, President Joseph Estrada has declared four provinces and a city in the worst hit area on the southern tip of Luzon under a state of calamity.
Officials in calamity zones will be able to use emergency funds and freeze prices of commodities with little red tape.
The Philippine government's Office of Civil Defense said the death toll from Babs has risen to 151.
The fatalities included 71 people who died in landslides in hard-hit Catanduanes island and 41 people who drowned, were electrocuted or died in landslides in nearby Camarines Sur province.
Local officials said entire families died in San Miguel town in Catanduanes, where virtually every house was damaged.
Residents began burying their dead in two mass graves Saturday.
Nearly 400,000 people were forced out of their homes, disaster relief officials said.
Tens of thousands of others were stranded as ports were shut and ships forbidden to sail.
Babs was the second devastating storm to hit the Philippines this month.
Two weeks ago, Super Typhoon Zeb killed at least 74 people in the northern Philippines and 43 more in Taiwan and Japan.
Philippine weather forecasters said Sunday they were monitoring a low pressure area over the Pacific, about 900 kilometers (558 miles) east of the southern Philippine island of Mindanao, that could strengthen into a storm in two to three days.
Typhoon Babs brought torrential rains and landslides to Taiwan and lashed Hong Kong with strong winds Sunday after killing at least 156 people in the Philippines and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless.
The Hong Kong Observatory said that at 10 p.m. (1400 GMT), the typhoon, packing sustained winds of 130 kph (81 mph), was centered about 300 kilometers (186 miles) southeast of the territory.
It was moving at about 10 kph (6.2 mph) toward the south China coast.
The storm was expected to be closest to Hong Kong on Tuesday, the observatory said.
Its outer fringes brought torrential rains to the whole island of Taiwan, with Hualien and several other eastern towns recording more than 500 millimeters (20 inches) of rain in 24 hours, weathermen said.
Authorities evacuated hundreds of people from their homes near flooded rivers.
In Taipei, the main Keelung River has swelled its banks.
One-third of Hsichih town was flooded in waist-high water, and much of nearby Wutu was also flooded.
Rescuers used rubber boats and trucks to evacuate residents from apartment blocks, officials said.
In eastern Ilan, a man was swept into the sea while fishing in the rough waters.
Nine people were injured when their van was hit by rockslides in eastern Taitung, police said.
Several domestic airports were closed, and landslides had halted traffic and trapped hundreds of people in mountains in central Taiwan, they said.
In Hong Kong, authorities hoisted the No. 3 typhoon signal, a warning to residents to take precautions as gusts of 104 kph (64 mph) were recorded in some places.
The government opened several shelters for those seeking refuge from the storm.
Hong Kong beaches were ordered closed because of rough seas, and fishing boats sought shelter in the harbor.
In the Philippines, President Joseph Estrada has declared four provinces and a city in the worst hit area on the southern tip of Luzon under a state of calamity.
Officials in calamity zones will be able to use emergency funds and freeze prices of commodities with little red tape.
The Philippine government's Office of Civil Defense said the death toll from Babs rose to 156 Sunday.
The fatalities included 71 people who died in landslides in hard-hit Catanduanes island and 41 people who drowned, were electrocuted or died in landslides in nearby Camarines Sur province.
Local officials said entire families died in San Miguel town in Catanduanes, where virtually every house was damaged.
Residents began burying their dead in two mass graves Saturday.
Nearly 400,000 people were forced out of their homes, disaster relief officials said.
Tens of thousands of others were stranded as ports were shut and ships forbidden to sail.
Babs was the second devastating storm to hit the Philippines this month.
Two weeks ago, Super Typhoon Zeb killed at least 74 people in the northern Philippines and 43 more in Taiwan and Japan.
Philippine weather forecasters said Sunday they were monitoring a low pressure area over the Pacific, about 900 kilometers (558 miles) east of the southern Philippine island of Mindanao, that could strengthen into a storm in two to three days.
Typhoon Babs weakened into a severe tropical storm Sunday night after it triggered massive flooding and landslides in Taiwan and slammed Hong Kong with strong winds.
The storm earlier killed at least 156 people in the Philippines and left hundreds of thousands homeless.
Babs, which, 2nd graf
President Joseph Estrada on Thursday donated 600,000 pesos (dlrs 15,000), the equivalent of his salary for one year, to a fund for victims of recent typhoons in the Philippines, the presidential palace said.
Estrada gave the money to start off a fund-raising campaign, and asked other Filipinos to help.
At least two Chinese-Filipino associations immediately donated 3 million pesos (dlrs 75,000), the palace said.
Estrada also ordered officials of the government-run national sweepstakes office to set up six special lotteries and donate the proceeds to victims of the four typhoons that have ravaged the country since September.
The storms left at least 370 people dead, more than 200,000 others homeless and millions of dollars worth of crops and property destroyed.
On Wednesday, the Philippine Red Cross sought help from its international counterparts for the victims.
The international Red Cross said it is launching an appeal for 3 million Swiss francs (about dlrs 2.2 million) ``in urgent humanitarian assistance.''
The last time the Philippine Red Cross sought international help was in 1995, when Typhoon Angela devastated the northern Philippines.
It also requested help following the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in June 1991, and when a flash flood killed more than 6,000 people in central Ormoc City in November that year.
The typhoons damaged or destroyed 10.4 billion pesos (dlrs 252.8 million) worth of infrastructure, crops and other property, according to the civil defense office.
Weak consumer demand is expected to have lowered inflation pressure on all commodity groups in the Philippines in October, economists said Wednesday.
The economists said they expect October inflation to be 9.8 percent year-on-year, down from 10 percent in September.
The data is to be released Thursday.
In the nine months to September, inflation averaged 9.4 percent, lower than the government's target of 10 percent for the year.
Inflation hit double-digit levels in May for the first time in nearly two years, when it reached 10.3 percent.
An economic slowdown triggered by the regional financial crisis has caused demand for most consumer items, including basic commodities, to decline over the past few months.
Food prices, which have a hefty weighting on the consumer prices index, have been softening since August.
``With the weak economy, consumers are being very cautious with their purchases _ and most people (are) sticking to very tight budgets,'' said Ricky Lozari, an economist at Abacus Securities Corp.
During the second quarter of the year, the country's gross national product shrank 0.7 percent, its first contraction in five years.
Economists expect either no growth or a contraction in the third quarter.
The impact of droughts caused by the El Nino weather condition, which lowered growth in the first half, will not be reflected in the October inflation data, economists say.
``Even if some provinces are still recovering from the effects of the drought, most major agricultural producing provinces have since resumed normal activities,'' said Luz Lorenzo, research head at ATR Securities Inc.
Lorenzo said, however, that recent typhoons could cause inflationary pressures over the next two months.
The Philippines is still recovering from the effects of two typhoons last month that destroyed some 4 billion pesos (dlrs 100 million) worth of crops.
The areas hardest hit by the typhoons account for 55 percent of the country's gross domestic product.
Lorenzo doesn't expect the effect of the typhoons on consumer prices will be dramatic since the government has said it is prepared to import basic commodities such as rice, sugar and corn to make up for any supply shortfall.
``As long as the government is ready to import, prices will remain stable,'' she said.
Some economists now expect inflation to average 9.6 percent this year, lower than the government's target of 10 percent.
The price of cooking oil in the Philippines has risen drastically this month because of retailers speculating on a shortfall in copra production, the government said Thursday.
Norberto Boceta, deputy administrator of the Philippine Coconut Authority, said the price of cooking oil has jumped by as much as 50 percent this month from prices posted in the first quarter.
Boceta said in a letter to the Department of Trade and Industry that the increase was spurred by retailers speculating on a ``perceived copra production shortfall due to the effects of El Nino and the two super typhoons.''
Coconut oil is the main ingredient in cooking oil manufactured in the Philippines.
It is extracted from copra, the dried white meat of the coconut.
The country's copra production is expected to drop below 2 million metric tons this year as a result of the drought brought by the El Nino weather phenomenon, which hit coconut farms during the latter part of 1997.
The two typhoons that recently hit the country, Zeb and Babs, have also hurt coconut crops.
Babs, in particular, ravaged the Bicol region, a large coconut-producing area.
With hefty 1997 carry-over stocks gradually depleting, the losses brought by El Nino and the typhoons are now affecting the supply of copra.
Boceta said speculator activity also takes into account that the last quarter of the year ordinarily is a lean harvest season.
But Boceta is confident that the inflated market will soon give way to supply and demand dynamics.
A spokeswoman for the coconut administration office said the price increase only affects local consumers and that the situation is likely to normalize in a few weeks.
NATIONAL FORECAST &QL; 	Snow advisories were issued Thursday for the San Juan Mountains in southeast Colorado as moist air drawn northward by a distant upper-level low-pressure system over northern Nevada was forced to ascend the sloping terrain.
On Friday, the upper-level low will weaken as it migrates slowly into western Montana, touching off scattered showers in the northern Rockies and northern Great Basin.
Farther south, isolated showers and a few thunderstorms will develop over the southern Rockies in Arizona, New Mexico and western Colorado as residual moist air left in the wake of the Montana low is lifted over the mountainous terrain.
A chilly, frosty morning over the middle Mississippi and Ohio valleys will be followed by a sunny, mild afternoon under the auspices of a sprawling high- pressure system centered over southeast Missouri.
The clockwise circulation of air around the behemoth high will stretch from New England to Florida.
Along Florida's east coast, ocean winds averaging 15 to 30 mph will pile up water at spots along beaches, raising the risk that dangerous rip currents will develop.
Gusts to 40 mph are possible in spots.
Meanwhile, widely separated showers and thunderstorms will form over the peninsula, fueled by inbound ocean moisture.
Across New England, winds from the west will send milder air eastward from the Great Lakes.
However, a warm front marking the leading edge of the advancing milder air will meet with some resistance, paving the way for spotty showers across northern New England.
Focus: Stormy Philippines 	Supertyphoon Babs, armed with winds over 150 mph, slammed into the Philippine island of Luzon on Wednesday.
The fierce landfall followed on the heels of Supertyphoon Zeb, which lashed Luzon over a week ago.
The long north-to-south span of the Philippines places the chain squarely within the main migration route of typhoons in the western Pacific, which boasts a higher frequency of tropical storms than any other basin in the world.
The primary reasons for the high frequency of storms are the large expanse of very warm water and favorably steady upper-level winds from the east.
Dr. Barnett Slepian, an obstetrician who performed abortions at Buffalo Women's Gynecological Services clinic, was killed by a sniper's bullet as he stood in the kitchen of his home.
His slaying is the most deadly example of what law-enforcement officials describe as an annual pattern of anti-abortion violence in Canada and western New York.
Slepian's killer is still at large.
Slepian had endured years of picketing and harassment, and had received a warning earlier on the day he was slain about possible attacks against abortion providers.
Slepian's death has become a factor in several political campaigns in New York.
The level of anti-abortion violence and terrorism seems to be increasing in the U.S. and Canada.
Since 1993, three doctors, three clinic employees and a clinic escort have been murdered and there have been more than a dozen attempted murders of abortion providers.
Arson and bombings of clinics have become commonplace.
The last victim of this violence is Dr. Barnett Slepian, an abortion provider at a public clinic in Buffalo, N.Y.  Viewed by admirers as brave and conscientious, he was shot by a sniper.
His death has become an anti-abortion violence issue in two N.Y. State political office races.
Dr. Barnett Slepian was murdered in his suburban Buffalo home on 23 October 1998.
He maintained a private obstetrics practice, and worked regularly at Buffalo's only public abortion clinic.
Snipers had attacked five abortion providers in New York and Canada over the past four years.
Slepian had been warned that he was endangered.
Abortion rights advocates decried Slepian's murder, and blamed opponents, including some politicians, of creating a climate that led to the killing.
Slepian's murder was a factor in the New York Attorney General and senatorial campaigns.
Investigators reported little progress.
The FBI was aiding local police.
Dr. Barnett Slepian, a prominent Buffalo, New York obstetrician who provided  abortions at a Buffalo clinic, was slain by a sniper's bullet Friday night.
The  sniper, who fired through a kitchen window, shot Slepian as he talked with his  wife and one of his sons.
The attack on Dr. Slepian is the fifth by anti-abortion  terrorists on doctors in the U.S. and Canada since 1994.
All of the attacks occurred  around November 11th, Veterans Day in the U.S. and Remembrance Day in Canada,  but  marked as "Remember the Unborn Children Day" by anti-abortionists.
The search of the  sniper is continuing.
Dr. Barnett Slepian, an obstetrician with a practice in suburban Buffalo, N.Y., returned home from synagogue Friday night with his wife, Lynn, and greeted his four sons.
Then he stepped into his kitchen, where a sniper's bullet crashed through a back window and struck him in the chest, police said.
He fell to the floor, calling for help, but he would die within two hours.
Slepian was one of a handful of doctors who provide abortions in the Buffalo area, and law-enforcement officials said Saturday that his slaying was the most deadly example of what they described as an annual pattern of anti-abortion violence in Canada and western New York.
Slepian had endured years of picketing and harassment, and earlier on Friday he had received a warning about possible attacks against abortion providers.
Slepian, 51, is the third abortion doctor killed in the United States since 1993.
In the past four years, three Canadian doctors and a doctor in Rochester, N.Y., all of whom performed abortions, have been wounded by snipers.
Each of the shootings occurred within a few weeks of Nov. 11, Veteran's Day, also known as Remembrance Day in Canada.
President Clinton said Saturday that he was ``outraged'' by Slepian's slaying and that the Justice Department was working with local authorities to track down his killer.
New York Gov. George Pataki said the killer should face the death penalty.
``It's beyond a tragedy _ it's really an act of terrorism and, in my mind, a cold-blooded assassination,'' Pataki said in Buffalo.
Susan Ward, a spokeswoman for Buffalo GYN Women's Services, the private clinic where Slepian performed abortions, said the National Abortion Federation had faxed a warning to the clinic Friday morning reminding them about the four-year pattern of attacks.
Ms. Ward said the fax was sent to Slepian at his private office in Amherst.
``He was aware of the threat,'' she said.
``Around this time of year, there had been shootings.''
Amherst police said the timing of the shootings was not the only similarity.
In each case, police said a gunman, using a high-powered rifle, fired through a window into the home of the doctors.
Last November, a doctor in Winnipeg, Manitoba, was shot in the shoulder by a bullet fired through a window.
Assistant Police Chief Frank Olesko said local investigators as well as FBI agents and Canadian authorities were looking at the possibility that the same gunman could be responsible for all of the shootings.
A task force of several Canadian and U.S. law enforcement agencies has been investigating the attacks for more than a year.
National abortion-rights advocates expressed concern that the slaying signaled a renewed escalation of violence against abortion providers.
The gunman who shot Slepian apparently hid in a strip of woods behind the house, then fired a single shot from a high-powered rifle, Olesko said.
Local police, FBI agents and Canadian investigators searched the woods Saturday, but the identity and whereabouts of the suspect remained unknown.
Shalom Press, another Amherst abortion provider who had known Slepian for years, said, ``He believed women had the right to have an abortion, and he followed his conscience.''
The slaying comes more than six years after anti-abortion protesters descended on Buffalo.
In April 1992, the city was the setting for a coordinated series of ``Spring of Life'' protests led by members of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue.
Nearly 200 protesters were arrested during one demonstration, and abortion-rights groups held counter protests.
Police said Slepian was one of the doctors singled out by picketers.
In interviews with The Buffalo News, Slepian said he took the rhetoric of abortion opponents seriously.
In April 1993, one month after the shooting death of a Pensacola, Fla., abortion provider, David Gunn, Slepian spoke about the vulnerability of doctors who provide abortions.
``It probably hits home a little bit because it could have been me,'' Slepian told The Buffalo News.
``For years I've felt, and I still feel, it could happen to me or to someone around here.''
And in 1995, he told The News: ``When you're using words like `kill' and `murder,' that's where it can lead.
If the rosary-holding churchgoers and the bishop don't think that's true, they're fooling themselves.''
In 1988, Slepian had clashed with anti-abortion protesters outside his home.
Protesters had taunted him during the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah, calling him a ``murderer.''
One protester later claimed that Slepian had attacked him with a baseball bat, though the case was later settled.
Slepian divided his practice between the clinic in Buffalo and his private office in Amherst.
Ms. Ward, the clinic spokeswoman, said he had worked at that and other clinics for 15 years.
``He has been harassed right in front of his house,'' she said.
``His children have been harassed.''
She called him a courageous man who followed his principles.
A woman from Attica, N.Y., who identified herself only as Susan, stood outside his Amherst office Saturday, weeping.
She said Slepian should not be portrayed solely as an ``abortion doctor.''
She said he had delivered her niece and her daughter and that he kept a photo album of the hundreds of babies that he had delivered.
``To me, he was about babies, not abortion,'' Susan said.
She said she had gone to him every three months for the past four years for treatment of cervical cancer.
``I feel he saved my life.
I feel he is like a member of my family.''
In Slepian's affluent Amherst neighborhood of large homes, there was a sense of shock that this protected world could be violated.
The slogan on Amherst police cars reads, ``Safest Town in America.''
``Every once in a while,'' said David Guercio, 49, a neighbor walking by the Slepian home Saturday, ``we get a pumpkin smashed around here, but that's about it.''
Another neighbor, Neel Chary, said Slepian's four sons had told him of a horrible scene.
``They just went into a panic,'' Chary said.
``The oldest one called the grandpa and said, `Grandpa, Grandpa, Dad's been shot.'''
Dr. Barnett Slepian, an obstetrician with a practice in suburban Buffalo, N.Y., returned home from synagogue Friday night with his wife, Lynn, and greeted his four sons.
Then he stepped into his kitchen, where a sniper's bullet crashed through a back window and struck him in the chest, police said.
He fell to the floor, calling for help, but he would die within two hours.
Slepian was one of a handful of doctors who provide abortions in the Buffalo area, and law-enforcement officials said Saturday that his slaying was the most deadly example of what they described as an annual pattern of anti-abortion violence in Canada and western New York.
Slepian had endured years of picketing and harassment, and earlier on Friday he had received a warning about possible attacks against abortion providers.
Slepian, 51, is the third abortion doctor killed in the United States since 1993.
In the past four years, three Canadian doctors and a doctor in Rochester, N.Y., all of whom performed abortions, have been wounded by snipers.
Each of the shootings occurred within a few weeks of Nov. 11, Veteran's Day, also known as Remembrance Day in Canada.
President Clinton said Saturday that he was ``outraged'' by Slepian's slaying and that the Justice Department was working with local authorities to track down his killer.
New York Gov. George Pataki said the killer should face the death penalty.
``It's beyond a tragedy _ it's really an act of terrorism and, in my mind, a cold-blooded assassination,'' Pataki said in Buffalo.
Susan Ward, a spokeswoman for Buffalo GYN Women's Services, the private clinic where Slepian performed abortions, said the National Abortion Federation had faxed a warning to the clinic Friday morning reminding them about the four-year pattern of attacks.
Ms. Ward said the fax was sent to Slepian at his private office in Amherst.
``He was aware of the threat,'' she said.
``Around this time of year, there had been shootings.''
Amherst police said the timing of the shootings was not the only similarity.
In each case, police said a gunman, using a high-powered rifle, fired through a window into the home of the doctors.
Last November, a doctor in Winnipeg, Manitoba, was shot in the shoulder by a bullet fired through a window.
Assistant Police Chief Frank Olesko said local investigators as well as FBI agents and Canadian authorities were looking at the possibility that the same gunman could be responsible for all of the shootings.
A task force of several Canadian and U.S. law enforcement agencies has been investigating the attacks for more than a year.
National abortion-rights advocates expressed concern that the slaying signaled a renewed escalation of violence against abortion providers.
The gunman who shot Slepian apparently hid in a strip of woods behind the house, then fired a single shot from a high-powered rifle, Olesko said.
Local police, FBI agents and Canadian investigators searched the woods Saturday, but the identity and whereabouts of the suspect remained unknown.
Shalom Press, another Amherst abortion provider who had known Slepian for years, said, ``He believed women had the right to have an abortion, and he followed his conscience.''
The slaying comes more than six years after anti-abortion protesters descended on Buffalo.
In April 1992, the city was the setting for a coordinated series of ``Spring of Life'' protests led by members of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue.
Nearly 200 protesters were arrested during one demonstration, and abortion-rights groups held counter protests.
Police said Slepian was one of the doctors singled out by picketers.
In interviews with The Buffalo News, Slepian said he took the rhetoric of abortion opponents seriously.
In April 1993, one month after the shooting death of a Pensacola, Fla., abortion provider, David Gunn, Slepian spoke about the vulnerability of doctors who provide abortions.
``It probably hits home a little bit because it could have been me,'' Slepian told The Buffalo News.
``For years I've felt, and I still feel, it could happen to me or to someone around here.''
And in 1995, he told The News: ``When you're using words like `kill' and `murder,' that's where it can lead.
If the rosary-holding churchgoers and the bishop don't think that's true, they're fooling themselves.''
In 1988, Slepian had clashed with anti-abortion protesters outside his home.
Protesters had taunted him during the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah, calling him a ``murderer.''
One protester later claimed that Slepian had attacked him with a baseball bat, though the case was later settled.
Slepian divided his practice between the clinic in Buffalo and his private office in Amherst.
Ms. Ward, the clinic spokeswoman, said he had worked at that and other clinics for 15 years.
``He has been harassed right in front of his house,'' she said.
``His children have been harassed.''
She called him a courageous man who followed his principles.
A woman from Attica, N.Y., who identified herself only as Susan, stood outside his Amherst office Saturday, weeping.
She said Slepian should not be portrayed solely as an ``abortion doctor.''
She said he had delivered her niece and her daughter and that he kept a photo album of the hundreds of babies that he had delivered.
``To me, he was about babies, not abortion,'' Susan said.
She said she had gone to him every three months for the past four years for treatment of cervical cancer.
``I feel he saved my life.
I feel he is like a member of my family.''
In Slepian's affluent Amherst neighborhood of large homes, there was a sense of shock that this protected world could be violated.
The slogan on Amherst police cars reads, ``Safest Town in America.''
``Every once in a while,'' said David Guercio, 49, a neighbor walking by the Slepian home Saturday, ``we get a pumpkin smashed around here, but that's about it.''
Another neighbor, Neel Chary, said Slepian's four sons had told him of a horrible scene.
``They just went into a panic,'' Chary said.
``The oldest one called the grandpa and said, `Grandpa, Grandpa, Dad's been shot.'''
Some of those whom knew him said Dr. Barnett Slepian continued to perform abortions in the face of death threats because he had what one friend called ``a stubborn kind of courage.''
Others said he persisted because he was simply a conscientious doctor and made his decisions not on ideological grounds but because he wanted to practice the full range of gynecological medicine just as he had been trained to do, even if that included the procedures that many in the aggressive anti-abortion movement in western New York equated with murder.
``Having babies come into the world was his life,'' said Ellen Fink, a longtime friend.
``But he performed abortions because he believed it was a women's legal right to choose.''
Slepian, a 52-year-old gynecologist and obstetrician who lived in this suburb of Buffalo, was shot fatally in the back Friday night as he stood in the kitchen of his home chatting with his wife, Lynne, and his 15-year-old son, Andrew.
He had just returned from synagogue where he had gone to mark the yahrzeit _ or anniversary _ of his father's death with the Jewish prayer, the kaddish.
On Sunday, his friends, patients and relatives were heartsick at his murder, but also fearful of what they could say because the sniper who lay in wait in the woods behind Slepian's house and shot him with a high-powered rifle through an undraped window is at large.
Still, a few took time to talk to reporters because, they said, they wanted to make sure the man they knew was portrayed not as a narrow pro-abortion zealot but as a well-rounded doctor, father and husband.
Slepian, who as a young man was so determined to become a doctor that he studied medicine in Spanish in Guadalajara, Mexico, when U.S. schools would not accept him, was a person who prized his time with his four sons, Andrew, 15, Brian 13, Michael, 10 and Philip, 7.
He capered with them in their backyard swimming pool or taught them the value of work and money by having them mow the lawn in summer and shovel the driveway in winter.
He was a devoted jogger, having run a marathon, and was what one friend said was ``a health nut'' who was meticulous about his family's health and carefully watched such demons as cholesterol and salt.
He belonged to a Reform synagogue, Temple Beth Am.
He was painfully aware that he and his family could be the target of a fierce opponent of abortions and took precautions.
There had been four attacks against doctors on both side of the U.S.-Canadian border.
As recently as Friday morning, Slepian received a two-page warning from the downtown Buffalo clinic where he worked urging him to beware of sniper attacks.
``Do not assume that you are safe once you are at home,'' the warning said.
``Close the drapes in your house so you are not visible from outside.''
In fact, Slepian often kept the blinds drawn at home and he called the police whenever he received a death threat.
Neighbors said there were a number of periods when an Amherst patrol car was stationed outside Slepian's two-story brick colonial in a well-to-do enclave here.
But he refused to change his approach to medicine, even when his friends warned him some anti-abortion protesters would view his death as a ``coup'' that virtually eliminated access to abortion in the Buffalo area.
``He knew the risks well,'' said Glenn Edward Murray, who was Slepian's lawyer and longtime friend.
``We had discussed the fatal dangers he placed himself in by continuing to perform abortions.
We discussed security measures.
He was dedicated to providing women with safe and legal abortions and was unwilling to abandon his clients because of threats.''
Murray, who talked in carefully measured tones but still found himself choked with emotion, said Slepian had as a young intern and resident in the Buffalo area been taught by mentors how dangerous and sometimes fatal ``back alley'' abortions performed by bad practitioners or by the women themselves could be.
Even as he had four children of his own, he was determined that he would perform abortions for women who needed them, no matter how poor they were.
So in addition to a private practice he had in this leafy suburban town in the prairie-flat countryside east of Buffalo, Slepian chose to work regularly at a clinic in downtown Buffalo that had been singled out by protesters and was the last of its kind in Buffalo: Buffalo GYN Women's Services.
Now, that clinic has been left without a doctor.
``He had a stubborn kind of courage,'' Murray said.
``He was resolved not to let the threat eliminate the legal and medical options for patients.''
His wife, Lynne, a trained nurse who stayed home in recent years to raise their sons, was as resolute as he was in not letting the protesters stop her husband from practicing medicine as he saw fit.
Slepian, a slender, wiry man with the bearded face of a scholar, was born in Cambridge, Mass., into a lower-middle class family of four children, each of whom went on to considerable accomplishment as an adult.
One of his two brothers, Jacob, is also a doctor, specializing in ear, nose and throat medicine.
Slepian, whom friends called Bart, was raised in Rochester, attended college at the University of Denver in Colorado and received his medical degree from the Autonomous University of Guadalajara.
A residency at the State University of Buffalo brought him to this area 20 years ago, and he stayed.
Although gynecologists will quietly perform abortions for their longtime paying patients, Slepian became one of only a handful of doctors in western New York who were willing to perform abortions at public clinics and not hide the fact that they did.
Nonetheless, his friends said, he counseled women seeking abortion to consider alternatives like adoption.
In 1988, protesters taunted him outside his home on Hanukkah.
When he emerged carrying a baseball bat, a clash ensued and Slepian was eventually charged with a misdemeanor for damaging a protester's vehicle.
In 1992 he again became a target in a coordinated protest by 200 picketers from the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue that was known as ``Spring of Life.''
In recent years, patients who visited him at the downtown clinic or his private office in Amherst periodically endured shouts from picketers of ``You're murdering your babies.''
A longtime patient who asked that she be identified only as Karen said that Slepian frequently apologized for the disruptions the protesters were causing.
Still, Karen said she knew him mainly as a devoted gynecologist who saw her through infertility treatments and delivered her daughter.
``He wasn't supposed to be there for the delivery but he came anyway and when I asked him, `What are you doing here,' he said: ``I wouldn't miss it for the world.''
Similarly, she said, he went out of his way to visit another patient when she was in the hospital for a non-gynecological ailment.
``I thought I'd come over to have donuts and coffee with you when I heard you were in the hospital,'' Karen heard that he told the friend.
``He was the type of man,'' Karen said, ``that I would put my life in his hands and not question what he had to say.
And I can't say that about all doctors.''
With no arrests reported in Friday night's slaying of Dr. Barnett Slepian, the three doctors who publicly acknowledge performing abortions in the Buffalo area remained in seclusion Sunday as residents of this quiet Buffalo suburb reeled from the news that a sniper could still be in their midst.
Law enforcement officials from federal, state and local agencies who met with Canadian investigators here Sunday would not comment on their inquiry into the death of Slepian, the gynecologist and obstetrician who was killed by a sniper as he sat in his kitchen.
Abortion rights advocates said clinics in the area that perform abortions had been promised stepped-up security by law enforcement officials and would operate normally this week.
Neither a spokeswoman for the FBI or federal and local police officials would specify the security measures that would be taken.
Lucinda Finnelly, the lawyer representing Buffalo GYN Womenservices, an abortion clinic where Slepian frequently worked, said that another physician who wished to remain anonymous had treated patients who had been scheduled to see Slepian on Saturday.
Other abortion advocates said that since the slaying local physicians had expressed their willingness to carry out abortions.
``Womenservices is determined to keep this going,'' Ms. Finnelly said.
``That's what Bart would have wanted.''
Many residents here who denounced the shooting refused to give their names out of fear that Slepian's killer could strike again.
There was an obvious sense of concern over the sniper attack in this picturesque suburb of 150,000, which was declared the statistically safest city in America in a 1997 survey by Money magazine.
``The fact that someone could come in and do something like this is shocking,'' said Nick DiPirro, a retired high school administrator.
``Things like this don't happen here.''
The New York Times said in an editorial on Monday, Oct. 26: 	The murder of Dr. Barnett Slepian is the latest depraved assault on the small number of courageous physicians who still risk their safety to perform legal abortions in this country.
Slepian was one of only three doctors who performed abortions in the Buffalo, N.Y., area, and harassment and threats against him by anti-abortion groups had become routine over the past decade.
He persevered through courage and a belief in the right of his patients to choose whether to bear a child.
But a principled commitment to provide a constitutionally protected service could not stop the assassin's bullet that tore through his kitchen window and into his back Friday night.
His death shows again how tentative the right to abortion has become in the face of terrorism by anti-choice fanatics.
Their repeated acts of terrorism must be met with the severest possible crackdown by law-enforcement authorities.
If an armed police officer has to be stationed outside every abortion provider's home and office, 24 hours a day, let it be done.
This is an assault not only on individual doctors but on the rights and liberties of all Americans.
Last week the FBI joined Canadian authorities to investigate a series of unsolved sniper shootings of doctors in Canada and western New York dating to 1994.
In January, a week after the 25th anniversary of the Roe vs. Wade Supreme Court decision, a clinic bombing in Birmingham, Ala., killed a security guard and severely wounded a nurse.
Since 1993, three doctors, including Slepian, three clinic employees and a clinic escort have been murdered.
There have been more than a dozen attempted murders of abortion providers in the last five years.
Arson and bombings at clinics have become so common that many no longer make the national news.
It is bad enough that conservatives in Congress and in state legislatures are working to dismantle reproductive rights by banning certain procedures, such as so-called partial birth abortion, and by requiring waiting periods and parental consent before an abortion can be obtained.
But those restrictions are at least imposed by the normal give and take of political and judicial struggle in a democracy.
What is outrageous is the attempt to shut down abortions by illegal means _ by shooting the doctors or bombing the clinics or harassing the women seeking to exercise their constitutional right.
Some anti-abortion groups, to their credit, have denounced the bombings and shootings, but others seem reluctant to issue the strong condemnations that are warranted.
Indeed, one particularly virulent anti-abortion Web site lists the names of doctors it says perform abortions, or ``crimes against humanity,'' with a code indicating whether they are ``working,'' ``wounded'' or a ``fatality.''
Such incendiary rhetoric, and frequent accusations by some anti-abortionists that abortion providers are committing murder, can only fuel more terrorism.
The increase of anti-choice laws and ongoing campaigns of harassment by protest groups, even short of murder, have worked to make abortions harder to obtain.
More than 80 percent of counties in this country have no abortion provider.
In 45 states, the number of doctors who performed abortions declined between 1982 and 1992.
Slepian was among those who took a stand against restricting reproductive freedom and paid with his life.
Unless these brave doctors are better protected, fewer doctors in the next generation will be willing to place themselves and their families in such danger.
That is what the terrorists want.
They must not be allowed to succeed.
Neal Horsley, a 54-year-old computer programmer in Carrollton, Ga., does not understand what the fuss is about.
Three years ago, he established a Web site called ``The Nuremberg Files,'' a list attempting, in his words, ``to record the name of every person working in the baby slaughter business across the United States of America.''
Each name in the list is either in black type, meaning ``working''; in gray, meaning ``wounded;'' or has a line through it, meaning ``fatality.''
In an interview Sunday, Horsley said that shortly after hearing news reports Friday night that a doctor who performed abortions had been shot and killed in his kitchen in a suburb of Buffalo, N.Y., he drew a line through the name of the doctor, Barnett Slepian, on the Web site.
Abortion-rights organizations have denounced his action, implying that Horsley may have crossed out Slepian's name before he was killed.
``I certainly did not have advance information,'' Horsley said.
``I'm the only one who can change anything on the Web site.
That's tantamount to saying I knew of and advocated his death.
What is that?
Libel or slander?''
Asked to define his role and that of his Web site, Horsley replied: ``I'm a reporter.
I am simply a journalist.''
Law-enforcement officials would not discuss the investigation of the Slepian killing Sunday, but no one has suggested that the Web site had any connection with the attack.
Horsley said the goal of the Web site was to gather information about doctors who perform abortions so they could be arrested and punished should abortion be made illegal once again.
He said he did not want abortion doctors to escape prosecution for lack of evidence, as happened with some Nazi war criminals, and so he called the site ``The Nuremberg Files: Visualize Abortionists on Trial'' (http://www.christiangallery.com/atrocity/).
Visitors to the Web site are asked to provide a wide variety of information about people who perform or aid in abortions.
The information includes photos or videotapes of the doctors, their cars, houses, and friends; criminal records, including driving record, mug shots, and fingerprint card; and civil suit records, including ``informative depositions and divorce file (if any).''
Horsley said he received his information through e-mail and regular mail from anti-abortion activists and said he did not regard the compiling of such information as an incitement to violence.
``I have no power to stop them,'' he said.
Asked about animation that depicts dripping blood under his request for viewers to ``e-mail evidence or feedback,'' he replied: ``That is the blood of the unborn.''
Horsley said he first became aware of Slepian's death ``sometime after sunup'' on Saturday morning through an E-mail or a report on a computerized wire service.
``I did not have a feeling of guilt when I saw it,'' he said.
``I did not have a feeling of sadness.
We're involved in a war.
There are 4,000 babies a day being killed.
To do this work, you have to be like a policeman dealing with the reality of corpses.''
He said he had not received communication from anyone taking responsibility for Slepian's death or other attacks on people who perform or aid in abortions.
The Web site has recorded 180,000 to 220,000 visits per month in the last two years, Horsley said.
On Friday, there were 7,886 visits and on Saturday, 18,295.
Data for Sunday were not available Sunday night.
In the second and final debate in the race for state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic challenger, accused Republican incumbent Dennis Vacco on Sunday of ignoring the threat posed by radical anti-abortion advocates, thereby helping to ease the way for this weekend's slaying of an obstetrician.
The obstetrician, Dr. Barnett Slepian, was killed by a sniper on Friday night at his home in a Buffalo suburb.
Spitzer seized on the shooting again and again during their half-hour debate, which was broadcast live on WABC-TV in Manhattan and shown on other network affiliates across the state.
Spitzer cited a ruling in 1992 in which a federal judge rebuked Vacco, who was then the U.S. attorney for western New York, for failing to pursue contempt charges when protesters violated a court order against blocking the entrance to a clinic where Slepian was working.
The judge, Richard Arcara of Buffalo, took the rare step of removing Vacco from the case and replacing him with two special prosecutors.
Spitzer, speaking of his opponent, said, ``The horror that occurred the other night should weigh heavily on his conscience.''
He also chided Vacco for getting rid of the Office of Reproductive Rights when he became attorney general.
``Mr. Vacco disbanded the very unit that was to protect this doctor,'' Spitzer said.
Vacco responded heatedly, assailing his opponent for exploiting the slaying for political purposes.
``I think it borders on being despicable that Mr. Spitzer would try to seek political advantage at the expense of Dr. Slepian and Dr. Slepian's family,'' Vacco said.
The incumbent, who is personally opposed to abortion, cited his successful effort to win a U.S. Supreme Court ruling upholding a ban on blocking abortion clinics.
After the debate, Kelli Conlin, executive director of the New York chapter of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, said that the case was started under Vacco's predecessor.
If anything, Sunday's debate was even nastier than the first one, which was held in Woodbury, N.Y., on Friday.
Vacco continued hammering Spitzer for refusing to explain inconsistencies regarding his campaign loans.
Less than halfway through the debate, Vacco offered to yield the rest of his time to Spitzer if he would reconcile his campaign spending.
At issue is Spitzer's claim that he had used eight cooperative apartments he owns in Manhattan as collateral for millions of dollars of campaign loans with a document submitted to the state by his father, Bernard Spitzer.
Before the cameras, Vacco waved a document in which the father, a real estate developer, had sworn that the apartments were not being used as collateral.
He suggested Spitzer was being less than candid about the source of his campaign financing.
``Show us the money,'' Vacco pleaded.
As he did in the Friday debate, Spitzer provided only a bare-bones response.
``The documents have been submitted,'' he said.
``The response is very simple, Mr. Vacco: You're wrong on the facts, you're wrong on the law.''
Pressed by reporters to say more on the issue after the debate, Spitzer said he would ``answer the facts at the right time'' and declined to elaborate.
Since those two issues occupied most of the half-hour allotted to the debate, the candidates had little time to spell out their ideological differences.
Spitzer once again accused Vacco of diminishing the stature of the attorney general's office, pointing to reports that 80 percent of the people hired since Vacco took over in 1994 had political connections.
Vacco sought to deflect that criticism by enumerating his accomplishments in fighting crime and other areas.
After the debate, two political analysts _ one a Republican, the other an independent _ said Spitzer's handling of the questions about his finances had harmed his campaign.
``If it's so easy to explain, why didn't he remove it from the menu?''
said Jay Severin, the Republican strategist.
John Zogby, an independent pollster in Utica, N.Y., said that if Spitzer made a simple technical error, he has compounded it by his reticence.
``That could be one of the things that causes Spitzer to sputter,'' he said.
``I think he's handled it very badly.''
On the other hand, Severin said, Spitzer did well by responding so quickly to Slepian's slaying.
``It is evidence of some skill politically that he was able to seize on it,'' he said.
Since polls indicate that two of three New York voters favor abortion rights, Zogby said, it was a smart move for Spitzer to home in on the shooting as a way to attract Democrats, moderate Republicans and women to the polls.
Five sniper attacks against abortion doctors in Canada and the United States have occurred in the last four years within a few weeks of Nov. 11, or Veterans Day, a date observed as Remembrance Day in Canada, but which some anti-abortion activists are said to call ``Remember the Unborn Children Day.''
In each case, a sniper fired a high-powered rifle from behind the doctor's home.
Nov. 8, 1994, Vancouver, B.C. _ Dr. Garson Romalis, 57, is eating breakfast in his kitchen at 7:10 a.m. when two bullets crash through a sliding glass patio door.
One shatters his thigh bone and severs his femoral artery.
He nearly bleeds to death, but makes a tourniquet from his bathrobe belt and calls for help.
The shooter had fired at least three times from a wooded ravine behind the house.
The doctor's wife and daughter also are at home but are unharmed.
Police recover two shell casings from high-powered rifle bullets behind the house.
Nov. 10, 1995, Ancaster, Ont.
_ Dr. Hugh Short, 62, is at home watching television with his wife in a rear, second-floor den at about 9:30 p.m. when a bullet comes through a window, shattering his right elbow.
A single shell casing is found in a wooded ravine behind the home, in a suburb of Hamilton, Ont.
After losing the use of his hand, he stops practicing medicine.
Oct. 28, 1997, Perinton, N.Y. _ An unidentified doctor is standing by an indoor pool in the rear of his house in a suburb of Rochester, N.Y., between 7 and 8 p.m. when a bullet comes through a sliding glass door.
The doctor is not hit by the bullet but sustains minor cuts from debris when the bullet strikes a wall.
Nov. 11, 1997, Winnipeg, Manitoba _ Dr. Jack Fainman, 66, is hit by a bullet fired through a back window of his home along the Red River at about 9 p.m.
The bullet hits him in the right shoulder a few inches from his heart.
Police dogs track footprints in fresh snow behind his house to a park near the river nearby.
Oct. 23, 1998, Amherst, N.Y. _ Dr. Barnett A. Slepian, 52, is shot and killed when a bullet crashes through a kitchen window at the back of his home, in a suburb of Buffalo, at about 10 p.m.
He had just returned home from synagogue with his wife and greeted his four sons.
The killing of Dr. Barnett Slepian, a gynecologist in Buffalo who performed abortions, has become a factor in at least two campaigns in New York, say political consultants and some campaign advisers.
In the race for attorney general, the Democratic candidate, Eliot Spitzer, who favors abortion rights, has moved quickly to make the anti-abortion position of his opponent, Attorney General Dennis Vacco, a central issue in the campaign.
And in the tight race for U.S. Senate, while the Democrat, Charles Schumer, another abortion-rights supporter, has not raised Slepian's death himself, his aides say it puts a new emphasis on the issue.
Slepian was shot in the back on Friday night as he stood in his kitchen.
No suspects have been identified.
Even before the killing, Schumer was tyring to draw more attention to the anti-abortion record of his opponent, Senator Alfonse D'Amato, a Republican who is also running on the Right to Life Party line.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll completed on Saturday, 69 percent of those polled said they did not know D'Amato's position on abortion, and only 19 percent knew that he opposed abortion rights.
Now events are doing the work for Schumer.
Slepian's death was among the first topics raised in Saturday night's debate between the two men, and it was instantly followed by a question to D'Amato on whether he opposed first-trimester abortions for adult women.
On Tuesday, the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League plans to hold a news conference to screen a television advertisement _ made last week, before Slepian died _ featuring Emily Lyons, a nurse who was badly wounded earlier this year in the bombing of an abortion clinic in Alabama.
The advertisement, said Kelli Conlin, the executive director of the New York State affiliate of Naral, is intended to spotlight D'Amato's vote against the 1994 Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, which Schumer sponsored.
The measure made it a Federal crime to attack or blockade an abortion clinic.
Now, Ms. Conlin said, it will have new resonance, and the organization is considering buying more air time.
``It's incredibly sincere and powerful and it would have been regardless,'' she said.
``But sensitivities are so heightened from the shooting in western New York that it's even more powerful.''
David Eichenbaum, a Democratic political consultant who is not working for anyone in this year's campaign, said abortion ``is no longer the driving issue it once was, at least on the pro-choice side.''
But, Eichenbaum said: ``Sometimes an incident like this will do more to energize those who are pro-choice who otherwise might not consider that as an important an issue to go to the polls over.
It brings it home.''
D'Amato's aides would not comment about the political ramifications of the slaying, and Schumer's aides would not talk about whether they planned to refer to it in any advertisements, or whether the candidate planned to use it on the campaign trail.
``Both Senator D'Amato and Chuck Schumer agree this was a horrific crime and a horrible tragedy,'' said Josh Isay, Schumer's campaign manager.
But, Isay added, ``it heightens the abortion issue.''
Steven Goldstein, the campaign spokesman for Spitzer, was less reticent.
``Eliot is going to make a huge priority of this,'' Goldstein said.
``Stopping clinic violence is going to be a major theme of our campaign from now to Election Day.''
In Sunday's debate against Vacco, Spitzer attacked him for failing to enforce a court order in 1992 against anti-abortion protesters who had blocked the entrance to a clinic.
It was the same clinic where Slepian worked.
A federal judge removed Vacco, then the U.S. attorney for western New York, from the case.
He was replaced with two special prosecutors.
Spitzer also criticized Vacco for dismantling the Office of Reproductive Rights, which investigated threats and crimes against abortion clinics, when he became attorney general.
On Monday, Spitzer called for Vacco to revive that unit immediately, vowing that he would do so on his first day in office if elected.
Goldstein, who said it was ``thoroughly, thoroughly possible'' that the issue would surface in Spitzer's advertisements, defended the use of the issue by noting that the attorney general has direct impact on the issue of clinic access.
Vacco's campaign manager, Matt Behrmann, said in a statement that Spitzer had ``sunk to a new and despicable low by attempting to capitalize on the murder of a physician in order to garner votes.''
``It's possible that New York politics has never seen anything as crass as Eliot Spitzer's willingness to exploit the unfortunate murder of Slepian as a steppingstone for his own political ambitions,'' Berhrmann said.
Several consultants agreed that there might be political hay to be made in Slepian's death but that it had to be done carefully.
``Trying to score political points from a homicide can have a backlash,'' said Maureen Connelly, a media consultant not working for any candidate in next week's election.
With federal marshals posted outside and protesters waving pictures of aborted fetuses from the sidewalk, the clinic where Dr. Barnett A. Slepian performed abortions until he was slain on Friday night reopened here Tuesday and its director vowed to continue his work.
Short-staffed even before Slepian was fatally shot by a sniper who hid in a wooded field behind his home, the clinic, Buffalo Women's Gynecological Services, scrambled to find doctors to cover his schedule.
But the clinic performed no abortions Tuesday and saw only a few patients, said the director, Marilynn Buckham.
Instead, she said, the staff spent the day mourning.
``We needed to talk about the loss of our friend,'' she said after a series of staff meetings.
``We discussed how badly we felt.''
In a brief and tearful interview in her office, Ms. Buckham said she had received calls from doctors around the country who offered to perform there and said some would be flying to Buffalo as early as Wednesday.
``We will be doing abortions,'' she said.
The sniper attack that killed Slepian left many women here, most of them poor or working-class, expressing outrage that a bullet had deprived them at least temporarily of one of the few options they had to end an unwanted or unhealthy pregnancy.
The clinic is the only one left in Buffalo, New York State's second-largest city, that specializes in abortions.
The anger could be seen in people like Karen Jones, 25, who dropped off a friend at the clinic Tuesday morning, only to be swarmed by anti-abortion protesters who screamed, ``Be strong!''
and ``Save the baby!''
``It's none of their business if someone wants to have an abortion,'' she said, nervously taking a drag from a cigarette as she sat in her car, awaiting her friend.
``Are they going to be around to help raise the baby?
No they won't.
This decision is between a woman and her God.''
As the staff at the clinic scheduled appointments for the rest of the week _ one staff member said the clinic was fully booked for Thursday and Friday _ local and federal investigators reported little progress in their search for the sniper who shot Slepian, 52, through an undraped window as he stood in his kitchen in the nearby suburb of Amherst.
The officials were working on the theory that his killing is linked to four other sniper attacks since 1994 on doctors who perform abortions here and in Canada.
Three of the attacks took place in Canada, and one in Rochester, though no one was killed.
Tuesday, according to a friend, Lynne Slepian, the doctor's widow, was trying to spend time alone with their four young sons, talking about what had happened to their father and the consequences for their family.
``Right now, she is worried about the kids' safety and well-being,'' said the friend, Ellen Fink.
``Yes, she is worried about how she is going to support them.
But that is tomorrow.''
The federal government dispatched United States.
Marshals here Tuesday to assist clinic workers in their efforts to reopen Tuesday morning, though there was no visible protection from local law enforcement authorities.
Federal officials said that the marshals would be on hand to protect doctors who plan to arrive here from around the country to fill in for Slepian.
They gave no further details.
``We intend to provide a high level of security for the doctors and patients who come here,'' said one federal law enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
As for the women who live in this poor end of town, Slepian's death stirred not only sadness but also practical concerns about what they will do should they or their daughters become pregnant.
Sharon Ashley, 43, recalled that teen-age a friends showed up at the clinic about a year ago, only to be confronted by anti-abortion protesters who convinced her to keep the baby.
In the end, she said, the young women was so unprepared to be a mother that child welfare authorities took the child away.
``They told her that they would help her,'' Ms. Ashely said of the anti-abortion protesters.
``But they didn't do anything.
They left that girl on her own.
What you had was a child trying to raise a child.''
She added: ``Doctor Slepian helped a lot of people.
Women around her don't have many options now.
I think what you are going to see is young girls trying to give themselves abortions.
It's like we're going back to the old days.''
Nancy Roseboro, 31, remembers showing up at the clinic as a young girl to get an abortion after the man she lived with left her.
As far as she is concerned, Slepian gave her a second chance.
``If I had had that child, I'd be stuck on welfare or something,'' she said.
``I was a child.
I couldn't take care of my own self.
How could I take care of a child?
I think it was the best decision I could have made.''
Betty Hodlen sees the issue in terms of class and race.
More affluent women, she says, can go to private doctors who will perform abortions.
But poor women like herself have had to rely on people like Slepian.
``He was a kind man, a good man,'' she said.
``I think a lot of people in this community feel a sense of loss.
This is an outrage.
The anti-abortion people say they want to save lives, but they have also taken lives now.''
Over 60 persons, mostly teens, were killed and scores injured in Sweden's  deadliest fire in modern times.
The fire occurred in a Goteborg dance hall rented  by a Macedonian immigrant group.
Over 400 persons crowded the building approved  for only 150.
Most at the Halloween hip-hop party were immigrants, or children  of immigrants, from war ravaged or impoverished countries.
Most victims choked on  smoke and poisonous gasses.
Survivors claimed response to the fire was slow but  firemen were on the scene in six minutes.
Cause of the fire has not been  established but there were some hints of electrical problems and arson was also  being considered.
A fire in a Swedish dance hall caused the death of 62 teenage Halloween revelers  and injured over 160, some 17 of them seriously.
Although it was speculated that  the fire was caused by arson, investigators have not yet determined the cause.
The hall was packed beyond its capacity of 150 with somewhere between 250 and 400  persons, and an exit stairway was blocked by fire.
Identifying the casualties was  a wrackingly slow process due to severity of the burns and lack of identification  cards.
The crowd consisted mostly of immigrants or children of immigrant parents  from at least 19 nationalities.
Sweden's deadliest fire in decades, in an overcrowded discotheque with one available exit, killed 62 and injured 162.
Some jumped from windows.
Most victims died from smoke inhalation.
Almost all were immigrant teenagers representing 19 nationalities.
The fire's cause remains undetermined.
Its speed and a report of teens ejected earlier suggest arson.
Evidence also points to a short-circuit.
Firemen, accused of slow response, arrived 6 minutes after deciphering a call in poor Swedish.
Identifying victims was slow because many were too young for drivers licenses.
A memorial was held at Goteborg Cathedral.
The hall, rated for 150 but packed with 400, was  rented to Kurdish students who organized the party.
The worst fire in Swedish history occurred on October 29, 1998, when a Goteborg  dancehall, jammed with teenaged immigrants, burst into flame.
By November 2,  the death toll stood at 62, with 162 injured, 17 of whom were still in intensive  care.
Officials had not yet determined the cause.
Four hundred people had been  crowded into a hall approved for only 150.
Fire blocked one exit and the other  exit contained furniture.
Rescuers took 6 minutes to arrive, after having trouble  understanding the accented call for help, but the fire spread very rapidly.
The dead included individuals with 19 different nationalities.
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 162 others in Sweden's second-largest city.
Police earlier had reported 65 dead, but backed off that figure Friday evening. ''
The earlier information that police gave out was wrong,'' Hand Carlsson, the lead detective in the case, told a news conference.
The fast-spreading fire that broke out just a few minutes before midnight Thursday gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening.
Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the building's second floor, the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, said Carlsson.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history.
In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas.
Police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were found at the scene and one other died later.
Of the injured, at least 57 were in intensive care, according to Sven Martinell, spokesman for the local medical authorities.
The building did not have sprinklers and was not required to have them, officials said.
The dance was attended mostly by immigrants or children of immigrants.
Police said the dead or injured represented at least 19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, along with people from current and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American countries.
The Macedonian Association, which rents space in the building, had in turn rented the facility out to others for the dance, Carlsson said.
That person was not immdiately identified.
Binan Atta was walking to the Macedonian Association when he saw the fire.
He said he raced in and pulled to safety several people, including a friend.
``His clothes had burned off.
His skin was red and bubbly,'' Atta said.
``Lots of kids were just screaming,'' he added at Hammarkullen Lutheran Church, where several dozen family and friends of victims gathered.
``I saw about 10 people in windows who just jumped.
They didn't even look down'' beforehand.
Fire officials were alerted at 11:43 p.m. (2243 GMT) Thursday and had a fire truck at the scene four minutes later, rescue workers said.
The blaze was already consuming the building.
The building had just two exits, one of which was blocked by fire, city police technician Stephen Holmberg was quoted as saying by the Swedish news agency TT.
``It was a panic,'' Goteborg police spokesman Bengt Staaf said, with youths trampling each other to get out, and other youths scuffling with police to get in and attempt to help friends.
Olin said there were indications that the fire could have been set.
``The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal fire,'' he said.
Goteborg is about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of the capital, Stockholm.
The crowd in the second story of the building contained mostly 13 to 18 year olds celebrating Halloween and a holiday weekend.
``A night full of expectation, happiness over extra leave from school and high spirits in anticipation of a weekend was brutally and suddenly changed into a tragedy of incomprehensible dimensions,'' the Goteborg city council said in a statement.
``Goteborg is today a city in shock.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson visited the fire site at midday and King Carl XVI Gustav made a statement of condolence.
Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the blaze started with about 400 people inside.
``It looked like it started in the ceiling, and lamps and loudspeakers fell to the floor,'' he was quoted as saying.
``It was chaos.
Everybody was trying to get out and people trampled on each other on the way to the exit.
... Others kicked out the windows and jumped out.''
Ambulances were called in from several nearby communities.
The Goteborg rescue services also brought city buses into service to help transport the injured.
Anna-Lisa Saar, a social worker at Oestra Hospital, where many of the victims were taken, said identifying many of them was difficult.
``Maybe you have teen-agers yourself and know how they are ... They maybe don't have their own identification, but have that of a friend who is a year older.
Girls don't carry their identification on them, but in a bag and maybe that wasn't lying with the body,'' she said, according to TT.
Goteborg has about 435,000 people.
A fire turned a dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 162 others in Sweden's second-largest city.
Police earlier had reported 65 dead, but backed off that figure Friday evening. ''
The earlier information that police gave out was wrong,'' Hans Carlsson, the lead detective in the case, told a news conference.
The fast-spreading, 3rd graf pvs
A fire turned a Swedish dance hall jammed with teen-age Halloween revelers into a deathtrap, killing 60 people and injuring 155.
The fast-spreading fire that broke out just a few minutes before midnight Thursday gutted the building and left rescuers facing a hideous scene that local rescue service leader Lennart Olin likened to a ``gas chamber.''
The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening.
Although an estimated 400 people, most aged 13 to 18, were at the dance on the upper floor, the facility had approval for a maximum capacity of 150, Hans Carlsson, the detective leading the disaster investigation.
The fire, at the facilities of the Macedonian Association local immigrant group, was the deadliest in modern Swedish history.
In 1978, 20 people died in a fire at a hotel in the town of Boraas.
Police said most victims choked to death on smoke and poisonous gases; 59 bodies were found at the scene and one other died later.
Of the injured, at least 57 were in intensive care, according to Sven Martinell, spokesman for the local medical authorities.
Police earlier had reported 65 dead, but backed off that figure Friday evening.
``The earlier information that police gave out was wrong,'' said Hans Carlsson, the lead detective in the case.
The building, graf 5 pvs
Hundreds of teen-agers jammed into an upstairs hall planning to dance the night away, but by the time the sun rose Friday they were dead, clinging to life in hospitals or weeping in disbelief at a fire that killed 67 of them.
Police said another 173 people were injured, 20 of them severely, in the explosive fire that engulfed the plain brick two-story building just before midnight Thursday and turned a boisterous disco dance into a screaming terror in a matter of moments.
Bent metal bars on some of the hall's windows showed the panic-fueled strength that the teen-agers, many of them immigrants, exerted as they sought ways out of the hall, which with some 400 people inside was crowded to more than twice its legal capacity.
Below the second-floor windows lay stray shoes, broken glass and bloody blankets used to wrap those who may or may not have lived.
``I've been crying all day.
I haven't been able to sleep.
I'm alive, so why should I sleep when my friends are dead,'' 17-year-old Alina Turk said as she stood outside the ruined building Friday afternoon.
She said she had been at the dance and two male friends of hers died.
Zuhir Hersi, the 17-year-old disc jockey at the bash, told of his ordeal in telegraphic bursts.
``Panic.
No help.
No police.
No firemen.
Only kids helping each other,'' he said from his bed in a Goteborg hospital.
Although Hersi, like many of the youths at the dance, believes the police and firemen were slow, authorities said the first fire trucks were on the scene within five minutes of getting the alarm.
But the fire spread so fast that even an instant response would likely have been too slow.
The cause of the fire had not been determined as of Friday evening.
Fire Brigade Engineer Bo Wahlstroem said the flames' quick, raging spread could indicate arson, or that the fire had burned undetected for a time before exploding.
The fire destroyed the building, whose second floor, where the dance took place, was rented by the local Macedonian immigrant association in Sweden's second-largest city.
The association had hired out the hall for the night to eight party arrangers, police said but declined to identify the arrangers.
The crowd was mostly aged 13 to 18, witnesses said, and consisted mostly of immigrants or children of immigrant parents.
Officials said the dead and injured were of 19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, as well as people from the current and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American countries.
Identifying the dead was a wrackingly slow process, forcing relatives and friends exhausted with dread to wait for hours at hospitals.
Some were able to make the wait in rooms off-limits to journalists, but many had to wait in corridors, crying and teen-agers hurry in and out of rooms as they looked for their pals.
Only 14 bodies had been indentified by Friday evening.
``The identification is hard not only because of the burns but also because they have no driver's licenses or other documents _ they were so young,'' said Kerstin Einarsson of Sahlgrenska Hospital, the largest in the city of 435,000 some 500 kilometers (300 miles) west of Stockholm.
The blaze, the worst fire disaster in Sweden's modern history, shocked a country renowned for its smooth calmness.
King Carl XVI Gustaf, on a trip out of the country, sent a statement reassuring victims' relatives that ``all of us in Sweden feel great sympathy.''
Prime Minister Goeran Persson travelled from Stockholm to the fire site, first laying flowers outside and walking into the gutted wreck.
``The floor was full of shoes and boots, the same kind of boots my own children wear,'' he said.
On Friday evening, about 1,500 mostly young people, came to the Goteborg Cathedral to try to assuage their grief and bewilderment at a memorial service.
The youths were dressed in the same sort of hip-hop garb that the dance-goers had worn, but listened to delicate hymns instead of pounding disco.
They wept, they embraced, and some looked around nervously, apparently not knowing how to behave in a church.
``I don't go to church.
I'm a Muslim, but I don't go to prayers,'' said a young man who gave his name only as Sami.
``I'm accompanying my Christian friends.
We lost someone.
We're mourning _ that's all.''
A panicky telephone call in poor Swedish was the first word that authorities got of a fire racing through a dance hall crowded with immigrant teen-agers, delaying fire squads' response to the blaze that killed 60 and injured 162, officials said Saturday.
Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks.
The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen said at a news conference.
He and other officials declined to comment on whether a quicker response could have saved any of the mostly immigrant victims.
The minutes of delay felt endless to those caught in the terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily of what they saw as a slow and even obstructive response. 	''
No help.
No police.
No firemen,'' 17-year-old Zuhir Hersi, one of the disc jockeys at the bash, said Friday, hours after the blaze exploded. ''
Just kids helping kids.''
And once the squads arrived, the kids were blocked from helping, they say. 	''
We could have saved more young people if only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as saying by the newspaper Expressen.
On Saturday, hundreds of people stood quietly outside the gutted building amid flowers and candles as they attempted to come to grips with catastrophe.
In the parking lot that a day before had been a tumult of ambulances and screams, mourners had laid a 30-meter-long (100-foot-long) pile of bouquets, candles and cards of remembrance.
The cards' inscriptions were brief _ ``I will see you in heaven,'' ``We miss you'' _ and the people who stood reading them also had few words.
``I just wanted to show my sympathy.
I think about them.
There's nothing else we can do,'' said Caroline Ericsson, who didn't know any of the victims.
For Lasse Gustavsson, having the right words wasn't as important as showing his face, severely disfigured in a fire.
The former Goteborg firefighter lost his ears, his eyelids and most of his nose in a gas explosion.
By showing up, he said, he wanted to show the victims' relatives and friends that spirit can help them pull through despair.
``I can't give them hope.
Consolation is enough,'' he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances at his scars.
Many of those injured in the blaze may have to endure similar shocked looks the rest of their lives.
Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the overcrowded hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F).
The cause of the fire that broke out just before midnight Thursday remains under investigation.
Witness accounts have varied widely, with some reporting smoke coming from the cellar and others saying the fire appeared to start in the ceiling of the dance hall on the building's second floor.
The fire's quick spread has prompted speculation that it could have been set, but officials also say the explosive spread could have been because the fire had been burning undetected for some time.
What's known is that the hall was packed far beyond its capacity.
Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit.
The crowd was mostly teen-agers and mostly immigrants or children of immigrant parents.
They had come for a dance organized by eight party-arrangers whom police have not identified; the hall was rented by the organizers from the local Macedonian immigrant association.
Officials said the dead and injured were of 19 nationalities, including Somalis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Iranians and Swedes, as well as people from the current and former Yugoslavia and unspecified Latin American countries.
Identifying the dead was a wrackingly slow process, forcing relatives and friends already exhausted with dread to wait for hours at hospitals.
Only 18 of the dead had been identified by midday Saturday.
``The identification is hard because they have no driver's licenses or other documents _ they were so young,'' said Kerstin Einarsson of Sahlgrenska Hospital, the largest in the city of 435,000 residents about 300 miles (500 kilometers) west of Stockholm.
The worst previous Swedish fire disaster in modern history was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire.
Forensic experts examining heavily burned bodies were able Saturday to identify more of the 60 young people who died in a dance hall fire, but the catastrophe's most tormenting question was still unanswered.
How could it happen; what caused the flames that raced through a hall packed far beyond capacity, blocking one of the exits and forcing panicked teen-agers to flee down the one remaining staircase and leap out of second-story windows? 	''
As long as the technicians haven't established the cause of the fire, we don't know if it's arson or not,'' Goteborg chief prosecutor Ulf Noren said Saturday evening.
Earlier in the day, Noren had said it was a ''50-50'' chance that the fire was arson, prompting wide speculation that authorities had tracked down new clues.
But Noren later retracted the remark, saying he'd meant only that no possibilities were being excluded.
As investigators worked to find the cause, examiners identified another 22 of the bodies, bringing the total to 40, and officials said 49 people were released from hospital.
Of the 162 people who suffered non-fatal injuries in the Thursday night fire, 76 remain hospitalized.
Most of the victims were immigrants or of immigrant parentage, from countries including Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Ethiopia and current and former Yugoslavia.
The first call alerting authorities to the fire was made in heavily accented Swedish and that, combined with noise and the caller's distress, delayed the fire squads' response by several minutes.
Per-Olof Ortarsen of Goteborg's emergency services line said the call was so hard to understand that it took three minutes for workers to figure out what was going on and where to send fire trucks.
The first fire trucks and rescue squads were on the scene six minutes after the call was received, Ortarsen told a news conference.
He and other officials declined to comment on whether a quicker response could have saved any of the mostly immigrant victims.
But the minutes of delay felt endless to those caught in the terror of the fire and survivors have spoken angrily of what they saw as a slow and even obstructive response.
``No help.
No police.
No firemen,'' 17-year-old Zuhir Hersi, one of the disc jockeys at the bash said Friday, hours after the blaze exploded.
``Just kids helping kids.''
And once the squads arrived, the kids were then blocked from helping, they say.
``We could have saved more young people if only police hadn't stopped us,'' Mohanned Hussein was quoted as saying by the newspaper Expressen.
On Saturday, hundreds of people stood quietly outside the gutted building amid flowers and candles as they attempted to come to grips with catastrophe.
In the parking lot that a day before had been a tumult of ambulances and screams, mourners had laid a 30-meter-long (100-foot-long) pile of bouquets, candles and cards of remembrance.
The cards' inscriptions were brief _ ``I will see you in heaven,'' ``We miss you'' _ and the people who stood reading them also had few words.
``I just wanted to show my sympathy.
I think about them.
There's nothing else we can do,'' said Caroline Ericsson, who didn't know any of the fire's victims. 	''
It's damn difficult,'' said Connie Mesfin, who said she lost a friend in the blaze.
Lasse Gustafsson, a former Goteborg firefighter severely disfigured in an explosion, also came to the club site to try to show the victims' relatives and friends that spirit can help them pull through despair.
``I can't give them hope.
Consolation is enough,'' he said, as people nearby cast uneasy glances at his scars.
Many of those injured in the blaze may have to endure similar shocked looks the rest of their lives.
Authorities say the explosive fire quickly raised the temperature in the hall to 600 degrees (1,100 F).
The hall was packed far beyond its capacity.
Licensed to hold a maximum of 150, the hall held at least 250 and perhaps as many as 400 when the fire hit.
One of the two exit stairways was blocked by fire and there were conflicting statements from witnesses as to whether the fire came up the stairs from a lower level, or whether it spread there after breaking out in the second-floor rooms.
The worst previous fire disaster in modern Sweden was in 1978 in Boraas, when 20 people died in a hotel fire.
Goteborg, Sweden's second-largest city with about 435,000 people, is 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of Stockholm.
Officials offered no word Sunday on what might have caused the dance-hall fire that killed 60 young people, but reports of grim possibilities abounded in newspapers.
And while the officials were telling journalists that they had no answer to the technical question of why the fire happened, thousands of Goteborg's residents came to the fire site to lay flowers, light candles and grapple with the philosophical ''why?''
that plagues anyone gripped by tragedy. 	''
Why wasn't I there?''
sobbed a young woman as she turned away from the 200-meter-long (600-foot-long) mound of bouquets and flickering candles that has grown outside the gutted building.
The hunger for any answer at all was apparent at an afternoon news conference when chief prosecutor Hans Carlsson was describing the investigation and used the Swedish word for ''scene of the crime.''
Journalists immediately barraged him with questions: Why do you use that word; does it mean the fire definitely was set? 	''
It was a slip of the tongue,'' Carlsson said. ''
We have not arrested anyone.
We have no suspect.'' 	''
Such a fire site is considered to be a crime scene until the opposite is proved,'' said Ralf Johansson, head of the Goteborg police's technical division.
That is exactly what investigators have not been able to prove, and speculation that the fire was set ran high.
The newspaper Expressen reported Sunday that police were told just hours after the devastating blaze that one of the 162 injured claimed to know who set the fire.
The Aftonbladet newspaper reported meanwhile that several teens had been ejected from the dance shortly before the fire began, a detail raising the possibility that they might have set the blaze in revenge.
The newspaper also reported that one of the dance arrangers noticed that the fusebox for the dance's sound system had at least one fuse replaced by a nail.
Witness reports on how the fire started have given different versions.
Timur Sklyavov, 16, told The Associated Press on Sunday that he had been dancing near one of the loudspeakers and saw it explode.
He saidd his 15-year-old girfriend died in the fire. 	''
I was dancing (by myself) so I didn't know where she was.
I feel guilty,'' he said, close to tears as he stood near the flowers and candles at the fire site. ''
When I saw the fire, I ran out.''
But the disc jockey has said he first saw smoke coming up the emergency exit stairway, located just behind where the sound system was set up.
It's known that fire blocked dancers from using that staircase, forcing panicked dancers to seek escape by fleeing for the one remaining stairway or leaping out of second-story windows.
The hall was crowded to far more than its legal capacity of 150; witnesses have estimated the crowd as large as 400 people.
The fact that the emergency exit was burning ``is a circumstance that indicates the fire could have been set,'' Johansson was quoted as telling the newspaper Aftonbladet.
Witnesses have said the emergency exit stairway was crowded with wooden furniture, Expressen reported.
Many of the victims were immigrants or children of immigrants.
The horror fell especially hard on the Shaker family: 12-year-old Jasmin Shaker and her sister, 17-year-old Meriam, both died in the fire and another sister, Shirin, 13, is hospitalized with injuries.
Meriam had escaped the blazing hall, but died when she went back in to try to save Jasmin.
Like the Shaker girls, many of the victims were immigrants from troubled countries, or children of immigrant parents.
``We left Iraq 18 years ago.
We didn't want our children to grow up with war and bombs.
And then this happens,'' the girls' uncle, Hassan Bakir, was quoted as saying in Expressen.
Officials offered no word Sunday on what might have caused the dance-hall fire that killed 60 young people, but reports of grim possibilities abounded in newspapers.
And while the officials were telling journalists that they had no answer to the technical question of why the fire happened, thousands of Goteborg's residents came to the fire site to lay flowers, light candles and grapple with the philosophical ``why?''
that plagues anyone gripped by tragedy.
``Why wasn't I there?''
sobbed a young woman as she turned away from the 200-meter-long (600-foot-long) mound of bouquets and flickering candles that has grown outside the gutted building.
The hunger for any answer at all was apparent at an afternoon news conference when chief prosecutor Hans Carlsson was describing the investigation into the fire that broke out just before midnight Thursday and used the Swedish word for ``scene of the crime.''
Journalists immediately barraged him with questions: Why do you use that word; does it mean the fire definitely was set?
``It was a slip of the tongue,'' Carlsson said.
``We have not arrested anyone.
We have no suspect.''
``Such a fire site is considered to be a crime scene until the opposite is proved,'' said Ralf Johansson, head of the police technical division in Goteborg.
That is exactly what investigators have not been able to prove, and speculation that the fire was set ran high.
The newspaper Expressen reported Sunday that police were told just hours after the devastating blaze that one of the 162 injured claimed to know who set the fire.
The Aftonbladet newspaper reported meanwhile that several teens had been ejected from the dance shortly before the fire began, a detail raising the possibility that they might have set the blaze in revenge.
The newspaper also reported that one of the dance arrangers noticed that the fusebox for the dance's sound system had at least one fuse replaced by a nail.
Witness reports on how the fire started have given different versions.
Timur Sklyavov, 16, told The Associated Press on Sunday that he had been dancing near one of the loudspeakers and saw it explode.
He saidd his 15-year-old girfriend died in the fire.
``I was dancing (by myself) so I didn't know where she was.
I feel guilty,'' he said, close to tears as he stood near the flowers and candles at the fire site.
``When I saw the fire, I ran out.''
But the disc jockey has said he first saw smoke coming up the emergency exit stairway, located just behind where the sound system was set up.
It's known that fire blocked dancers from using that staircase, forcing panicked dancers to seek escape by fleeing for the one remaining stairway or leaping out of second-story windows.
The hall was crowded to far more than its legal capacity of 150; witnesses have estimated the crowd as large as 400 people.
The fact that the emergency exit was burning ``is a circumstance that indicates the fire could have been set,'' Johansson was quoted as telling the newspaper Aftonbladet.
Witnesses have said the emergency exit stairway was crowded with wooden furniture, Expressen reported.
Many of the victims were immigrants or children of immigrants.
The horror fell especially hard on the Shaker family: 12-year-old Jasmin Shaker and her sister, 17-year-old Meriam, both died in the fire and another sister, Shirin, 13, is hospitalized with injuries.
Meriam had escaped the blazing hall, but died when she went back in to try to save Jasmin.
Like the Shaker girls, many of the victims were immigrants from troubled countries, or children of immigrant parents.
``We left Iraq 18 years ago.
We didn't want our children to grow up with war and bombs.
And then this happens,'' the girls' uncle, Hassan Bakir, was quoted as saying in Expressen.
Goteborg, with 435,000 is Sweden's second-largest city, on the country's west coast some 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of Stockholm.
After clinging to life for three days, two youths trapped in a dance-hall fire died early Monday, bringing the death toll in the inferno to 62.
With another 17 people still in intensive care, the figure could still go higher in what is already Sweden's worst fire disaster of modern times.
The dead, as young as 12 and none older than 20, were among an estimated 400 people who were at a disco dance in a rented second-floor hall when an explosive fire broke out shortly before midnight Thursday.
The hall had been rented out for the night by the tenant, the local association of Macedonian immigrants, to teen-agers who arranged the dance.
The hall had a legal capacity of only 150 and officials say it is possible that the arrangers who allowed the hall to be severely overcrowded could be charged with contributing to others' deaths.
``It's important that people have a clear understanding that the authorities' approval of the premises was not a joke,'' chief prosecutor Ulf Noren, who is leading the fire investigation, was quoted as saying in the newspaper Dagens Nyheter.
However, Noren said, a decision on that question would wait until the cause of the fire has been determined.
The fire's ferociously quick spread has prompted wide speculation that it was set.
But witnesses have given widely varying accounts _ some saying it appeared to start in the equipment used by the disc jockey and others saying there was smoke coming up fom the emergency exit's stairway before the flames raced through the hall.
The emergency exit was blocked by flames, forcing the panicked dancers to try to flee down the one remaining stairway or leap out of second-story windows.
Most of those at the dance were immigrants or children of immigrant parents.
They were teen-agers whose parents had brought them here from homes torn by war or terror _ from Bosnia, Eritrea, Somalia and others _ and in their new country they formed new bonds, through school and music and parties.
About 65 of the young people died and more than 190 were seriously injured late Thursday night when fire and smoke engulfed an overcrowded makeshift discotheque that had only one unlocked door.
The fire was the deadliest this country has seen in decades, and it was all the more painful because it highlighted the profound divide between native Swedes and the rainbow of immigrants who have found refuge here over the decades.
Almost all of the victims were teenagers between the ages of 13 and 17, who had packed into a Halloween hip-hop party at a hall owned by a Macedonian civic organization.
Most of the victims died from smoke inhalation as they trampled each other in a panicked attempt to escape, but others were scorched by the heat.
Firefighters and police said they still had not determined the fire's cause.
Though its explosive speed initially led investigators to suspect arson, later Friday they said evidence pointed to electrical short-circuits in the lighting or sound systems.
``We were dancing and then suddenly people were screaming and running and pushing,'' said Sara Afeworki, 15, who came here from Eritrea six years ago.
``There were two exits, but the one in the back was covered up.
The only way out was a small door at the front, and there were 400 people.''
At candlelight memorials outside the discotheque, and at local hospitals, Kurds found themselves clinging in grief to classmates from Romania, Uganda and many other places that refugees have fled in the last 20 years.
Survivors described watching their friends jump from the windows on the building's second floor.
Others, who managed to get out the door, recalled a horrifying chaos within the building as they found themselves choking and clawing their way toward fresh air.
``It the most frightening thing I have ever been through,'' said Arya Shafai, a 15-year-old Iranian, as he recuperated in a bed at the nearby Salgrenska Hospital.
Arya said he would probably not have escaped, except that three larger teen-agers managed to pull him out from a mass of collapsed bodies around him.
The boy who came to the party with him, Gilsad, never got out.
``He was just so small, you know,'' said Arya, his voice trailing off.
Survivors and police officials said the hall had been rented out by a group of Kurdish students, who organized a hip-hop party and charged an entrance fee of about $5.
The hall was not supposed to hold more than 150 people; about 400 were inside when the fire broke out shortly before midnight.
Many of the dancers, including Arya, said they saw a lamp exploding just before the panic began.
Others said they had seen a speaker fall over and appear to be malfunctioning.
Disk jockeys quickly began urging people to leave the building, but survivors said the hall was so crowded that the teenagers had little idea at first about what was happening.
``Somebody said something about tear gas,'' said Andrea Guajardo, a 15-year-old Chilean girl who had come with her Iranian classmate, Yusra Morabet.
``We got out of the building and thought things were actually okay.
Then we looked up and saw people banging on the windows of the second floor and then trying to jump out.''
When police and rescue workers showed up a few minutes after midnight, they found many young people relentlessly holding onto companions who had collapsed or even died in the parking lot.
``Young people were holding onto dead and dying friends,'' said Sten Schaaf, a police officer who coordinated part of the rescue operation, which lasted until about 5 a.m. Friday.
``In such situations, you just can't tear them apart.''
Swedish Prime Minister Goren Persson toured the charred remains of the discotheque this afternoon and came out visibly shaken.
``It was all burned out, with only a skeleton left,'' he told Swedish reporters.
``On the floor were shoes and boots _ boots just like our children have.
It was only then that you could really understand what happened.''
Birgitta Bahl, speaker of Sweden's Parliament, noted with particular sadness that the tragedy had befallen people who had come to Sweden in the hope of escaping violent death.
``It is especially moving that many of the families who lost their children had come here to seek refuge from violence and suppression,'' Ms. Bahl said.
Swedish officials quickly set up psychological counseling centers around the city Friday, and churches in almost every neighborhood held bereavement services this evening.
Yet chaos and confusion continued to dominate efforts at picking up the pieces.
Officials said Friday night they had only been able to positively identify a handful of the dead teen-agers so far, because many of partygoers either had no identification cards or false ones with false ages.
As a result, many dazed students and parents wandered around the hospitals here fearful that missing friends or children had died but unable to know for sure.
Police officials said it may be several days before they know the names of every victim.
In Iran prior to the 1998 election of the 86-member Assembly of Experts, the Council of Guardians, dominated by political hard-liners, rejected 214 of 400 prospective candidates, disqualifying many supporters of the popular moderate reformist President Mohammed Khatami who criticized the selection process.
Many moderates pledged to boycott the election.
On election day official media reported an "unprecedented and unique" turnout, but few voters were seen at the polls.
The conservatives won a decisive victory as expected with less than half of the eligible voters going to the polls.
Hard-liners won at least 54 of the 86-seats and the moderates only 13.
Iran's conservatives won a decisive victory in elections for the 86-member clergy-based Assembly of Experts that oversees the country's supreme leader.
The results were expected since the 12-member Council of Guardians, dominated by hard-liners, had dropped most moderates from the ballot in advance of the election.
Iran's official media boasted about a huge voter turnout, but correspondents, citizens, and others disputed these claims.
Many Iranians said they stayed away to protest stacking the deck.
The hard-liners won at least 54 places on the 86-seat Assembly and the moderates only 13.
Most of the other winners lean toward the hard-line camp.
Iranian pro-democracy demonstrators protested the action of the conservative, 12-member Council of Guardians that rejected 214 of 400 candidates who wished to run in the national election for the 86-member Assembly of Experts.
This assembly elects and supervises the country's supreme leader, who has final say in all things.
In vetting these aspirants, the council eliminated most reformist supporters of President Mohammad Khatami, a moderate clergyman with wide popular support.
In the heavy boycotted election that followed, hard-liners, not surprisingly, won 54 of the 86 seats; moderates won 13, and independents 3.
Sixteen seats went to candidates whose affiliation is unclear.
Election of members to serve in the Assembly of Experts occurred on 23 October 1998.
The 86-member cleric-based Assembly is important because it names and supervises the country's supreme leader.
The conservatives' decisive victory was inevitable because the conservative-dominated 12-member Council of Guardians that passed judgment on the list of candidates rejected all except 30 of the moderate candidates.
Moderate supporters of President Khatami publicly protested the action of the conservative screening council.
Moderates threatened to boycott the election, and voter turnout was unusually low.
Conservative hard-liners won at least 54 places on the 86-seat Assembly.
Thousands of pro-democracy demonstrators rallied in a Tehran park Sunday to protest the rejection of scores of candidates for the election of a powerful assembly.
The Council of Guardians, which is dominated by political hard-liners, has rejected 214 candidates out of 400 who wanted to run in Friday's election to the 86-member Assembly of Experts.
Many of the disqualified candidates were supporters of President Mohammad Khatami, a political moderate.
Twelve candidates withdrew their names in protest against the screening.
The move by the 12-member Council of Guardians is seen as part of the struggle between conservatives and reformists in Iran.
Khatami went on national television late Saturday to criticize the selection of the candidates for the assembly, which has the power to appoint or dismiss Iran's supreme leader.
``There is no doubt that the number of wise and learned scholars suitable for membership of the Assembly of Experts is greater than the 400 or so candidates who have registered,'' the president said.
In a reference to expectations of a low turnout, Khatami said that greater variety among the candidates would have increased public enthusiasm for the polls.
Khatami said the council could be criticized for ``not creating the climate and conditions which would have attracted eligible individuals to enter the scene.''
``We should not prevent people from criticizing the components of the system, the institutions, the president, the Council of Guardians, the Islamic Consultative Assembly, the judiciary,'' Khatami said.
The council has rejected criticism, saying its sole criteria for judging candidates was the law.
Candidates have to take a test on Islamic theology.
In Tehran's Laleh Park on Sunday, thousands turned out to hear Heshmatollah Tabarzadi, a fiery student leader who spoke of the councilors that vetoed his own candidacy in Friday's polls.
``They have created a situation where a section of society will not be taking part in the elections because qualified candidates have been rejected, depriving a section of society from exercising their rights,'' Tabarzadi said.
Fearing an embarrassing low turnout in a key election Friday, senior conservative clerics fervently urged Iranians to vote in large numbers to show confidence in the 19-year-old Islamic regime.
The hard-line controlled state Tehran radio spent half its hour long main news program Thursday broadcasting calls for people to show their ``brave presence'' at polling stations to elect the Assembly of Experts.
Besides the presidential polls, the election for the 86-member assembly is the most important in Iran because the caucus elects and supervises the country's supreme leader, who has the final say in government decisions.
Among those urging people to vote was Grand Ayatollah Kazem Lankarani, who called it a ``divine duty'' and warned that ``the revolution's enemies are waiting to strike a strong blow at our regime.''
Despite the urging, the lackluster election campaign has failed to draw much excitement because of lack of competition: most of the 161 candidates _ all clergymen _ are hard-liners who were selected by a supervisory Council of Guardians controlled by conservatives.
In vetting 396 aspirants, the council eliminated most supporters of President Mohammad Khatami, a moderate clergyman with wide popular support.
Khatami's followers want to make the supreme leader more accountable to the people while the hard-liners prefer a much more hands-off approach.
The conflict is the latest chapter in a pervasive power struggle in the ruling clergy between Khatami and conservative clergymen who control most of the major state institutions such as the judiciary and security agencies.
Since his elections last year, Khatami has stunned the hard-liners with bold and popular attempts to ease social, political and media restrictions that were imposed after the 1979 Islamic Revolution installed the government of theologians.
By eliminating the moderates for Friday's assembly election, the conservatives were hoping to prevent a repeat of the stinging defeat in 1997 presidential election when 20 million out of 30 million people voted for Khatami against a hard-line rival.
But then the hard-liners began to fear a low turnout would look bad after some moderate groups decided to boycott the vote to protest the dumping of moderate candidates as well as to call into question the legitimacy of the conservatives.
Other moderates believe that people must vote to at least keep the most stringent hard-liners out of the assembly, such as Mohammad Yazdi, head of the judiciary, and Ahmad Jannati, head of the Council of Guardians.
The moderates also do not want their candidates _ few as they are _ to suffer because of a low turnout.
Candidates linked to the moderate camp include former President Hashemi Rafsanjani and Parliament member Majid Ansari, 44, who wants the assembly to submit regular reports of its work and to open its sessions to public.
Fewer than 10 million of a little more than 38 million eligible voters are expected to take part.
Even the hard-line Abrar daily estimated that 15 million people will vote, a turnout of 39 percent.
Hoping to save the day, Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei issued his final appeal Wednesday.
``The people, by their huge turnout at the elections of the Assembly of Experts will inject a new life into the revolution,'' he said.
Some 100,000 security forces will be deployed around the country's 28 provinces for the voting in 33,312 polling stations.
First official results are not expected until Saturday.
&UR; sf/vj
Iranians voted Friday to elect a key assembly expected to be dominated by hard-line clergymen who favor unhindered powers for Iran's supreme leader.
The state-controlled media reported an ``unprecedented and unique'' turnout but gave no figures.
However, Associated Press reporters found many polling stations empty and others with few voters.
Friday's election is for the 86-seat Assembly of Experts, whose job is to oversee the work of the supreme leader, a post currently held by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
In practice, the supreme leader has the final say in all matters _ and hard-line clergymen want to keep it that way.
But moderate clerics led by President Mohammad Khatami are calling for a more accountable leader in a political tug-of-war that has gripped Iran since his election last year.
``We want to have a say in our destiny,'' said Farhad Qaemaqami, who waited with about 30 others to vote at a mosque in the upscale Fereshteh neighborhood.
``I will vote for somebody who will have some kind of influence over the (supreme) leader.''
But Khatami's camp appeared to have lost this battle even before the polls: a conservative supervisory council that vetted a list of 396 prospective candidates approved 161 contestants, only about 30 of them moderates.
Khatami, who was among the early voters, pointed that out to reporters after casting his ballot in the Husseinieh Jamaran meeting hall attached to a mosque in northern Tehran.
``Definitely, there could have been more qualified people than were allowed, but nonetheless we still have a chance to choose our favored candidates,'' said Khatami, who drove to the polling booth dressed in the clergy's black robe and turban.
He shook hands and chatted with election officials before sitting in front of a white ballot box to pick a 16-man panel for the Tehran district from a list of 32 candidates.
Tehran radio said people queued in long lines to vote and authorities expect to run out of ballot papers.
``People voted for Islam,'' the radio said.
``People's participation is unprecedented and unique.''
In Bojnourd and Astaneh Ashrafiyeh cities in the north, people braved heavy rains and strong winds to stand in long lines at polling stations, the official Islamic Republic News Agency said.
The upbeat reports contrasted with predictions of low voter turnout from a disappointed public that had little to choose from, unlike in the 1997 presidential polls when 20 million people voted for the reformist Khatami.
A hard-line newspapers had said only about 39 percent of the 38 million eligible voters are expected to show up for Friday's vote.
``They are all liars.
I am powerless to do anything against them so it's best to keep quiet,'' said Siavaash Mohseni, 24, a university student who said he didn't vote.
``They have already selected the people they want to put in the assembly.''
A low turnout would likely be seen as a rebuff of the hard-line policies of Khamenei, who succeeded the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of the 1979 Islamic Revolution that installed the rule of Shiite clergy in Iran.
Khatami's popular efforts to ease the revolution's social, political and media restrictions are opposed bitterly by hard-liners loathe to give up control over Iran's judiciary, security agencies and other key institutions.
Voting in the 33,312 polling stations in the country's 28 provinces is scheduled to close at 6 p.m. (1430 GMT).
First official results are not expected until Saturday.
Iran's official media boasted about a huge turnout in elections Friday for the council that oversees the country's supreme leader.
But many polling stations were nearly empty in Tehran, the capital and largest city and where some voters complained that hard-line clerics had already decided the outcome.
State-controlled Tehran radio reported ``unprecedented and unique'' voting levels for the 86-member Assembly of Experts.
The radio said long lines of voters queued at polling stations across the country, and electoral officers expected to run out of ballot papers.
But correspondents who visited a dozen polling stations around the capital found turnout to be minimal.
Only two polling stations had voters waiting in line.
The electoral authorities twice extended closing the polls for a total of three hours.
Interior Minister Abdolvahed Lari also said late voters would not be turned away.
Candidate Majid Ansari, a moderate cleric, blamed the low turnout in Tehran on the lack of choice as most of the 167 candidates _ all clergymen _ were hard-liners.
The candidates were selected by a Council of Guardians that is controlled by conservatives.
``Unfortunately, the procedures were such that competition was limited and a group of revolutionaries were prevented from taking part in the elections,'' Ansari told The Associated Press.
Ordinary people were blunt about their reason for boycotting the polls.
``It makes no difference.
They have already selected the people they want to put in the assembly,'' said Siavash Mohseni, 24, a university student who didn't vote.
A young woman who gave only her first name, Arezou, said she was also alienated from the polls.
``The behavior of the Council of Guardians was very insulting because they did not give us a chance to choose the candidates of our choice,'' she said.
Although voting was supposed to be secret, there were no private booths for voters and it was easy to see whom a person voted for.
An election observer in western Tehran said many voters had cast empty ballot papers and many more had voted for supporters of the moderate President Mohammad Khatami.
However, a voter in Tehran's Enqelab Square, Saeid Kazami, 41, said he had cast his ballot mainly for hard-line candidates because they ``are protectors of the (Islamic) revolution.''
``We know that the revolution will have no problem if they are in charge,'' he said.
Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, a hard-liner, has the final say in government, and conservative clerics want to keep it that way.
But moderate clerics, led by Khatami, are calling for a more accountable leader.
Khatami's efforts to ease the revolution's social, political and media restrictions are popular.
But they are opposed bitterly by hard-liners who are loathe to give up control of key institutions such as the judiciary and the security agencies.
Khatami urged people to vote after casting his ballot at the Husseinieh Jamaran mosque in northern Tehran.
``Definitely, there could have been more qualified people than were allowed, but nonetheless we still have a chance to choose our favored candidates,'' Khatami told reporters.
Official results are not expected until Saturday, and Tehran's results could be announced as late as Sunday, electoral authorities said.
Conservative Muslim clerics were leading in national elections for a key assembly that elects and oversees Iran's supreme leader, according to partial results Saturday.
The trend offered no surprise since most of the 167 candidates in Friday' elections were hard-liners who want to maintain the authority of the supreme leader, the country's top Shiite cleric who has the final say in all matters.
The Election Committee announced the names of winners for 17 of the 86 seats in the Assembly of Experts.
Their affiliations were not given but judging by their background it was clear that at least 11 of the victors are hard-liners and four are moderates.
Two are believed to be independents.
The committee said the 17 victors represent 12 of the country's 28 provinces.
It said counting is underway for 69 remaining seats in 16 more provinces.
Final results are not expected until Sunday.
The elections were marked by a low turnout, and many Iranians said they stayed away to protest the lack of choice: a conservative council that vetted a list of 396 prospective candidates had rejected all but about 30 moderate candidates.
The moderates, led by popular President Mohammad Khatami, want to make the supreme leader more accountable to people by installing an assembly that is more balanced in its composition.
They also favor greater social, political and media freedom than allowed by the established clergy owing allegiance to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
These theologians, who control most crucial state institutions such as the judiciary and security agencies, cite the ideals of the 1979 Islamic Revolution that was led by Khamenei's predecessor, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
The official Islamic Republic News Agency said Saturday that 51 percent of eligible voters cast their ballot in 12 provinces where counting has been completed.
Nationwide, 40 percent of the 38.5 million electorate voted, the independent Salam newspaper said quoting sources the Interior Ministry.
The official media on Friday claimed an ``unprecedented'' participation by voters.
The Election Committee said a record 64.35 percent voter turnout was noted in Golestan province.
Golestan residents, contacted by telephone, disputed that.
``The stations were empty.
How those ballots got there, I have no idea,'' said Parvin, who would only give her first name.
She was reached by telephone in Gorgan, capital of Golestan.
She said she visited several polling stations and found very few people voting.
Associated Press reporters who toured polling stations in Tehran Friday also found many of them deserted.
An opposition Iranian group in exile, the National Council of Resistance in Iran, claimed that only about 10 percent of the electorate voted.
``So extensive was the boycott that the ruling clerics were speaking of religiously sanctioned rigging,'' the NCRI said in a statement issued in Washington and faxed to The Associated Press in Cairo, Egypt.
It said authorities stuffed ballot boxes and the regime planned to announce a turnout several times the actual figure.
There was no independent confirmation of the claim and voters in Iran did not openly complain of rigging.
&UR; av/sf/vj
Conservative Muslim clerics were leading in national elections for a key assembly that elects and oversees Iran's supreme leader, according to partial results Saturday.
The trend offered no surprise since most of the 167 candidates in Friday' elections were hard-liners who want to maintain the authority of the supreme leader, the country's top Shiite cleric who has the final say in all matters.
The Election Committee announced the names of winners for 17 of the 86 seats in the Assembly of Experts.
Their affiliations were not given but judging by their background it was clear that at least 11 of the victors are hard-liners and four are moderates.
Two are believed to be independents.
The committee said the 17 victors represent 12 of the country's 28 provinces.
It said counting is underway for 69 remaining seats in 16 more provinces.
Final results are not expected until Sunday.
The elections were marked by a low turnout, and many Iranians said they stayed away to protest the lack of choice: a conservative council that vetted a list of 396 prospective candidates had rejected all but about 30 moderate candidates.
The moderates, led by popular President Mohammad Khatami, want to make the supreme leader more accountable to people by installing an assembly that is more balanced in its composition.
They also favor greater social, political and media freedom than allowed by the established clergy owing allegiance to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
These theologians, who control state institutions such as the judiciary and security agencies, cite the ideals of the 1979 Islamic Revolution that was led by Khamenei's predecessor, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
The official Islamic Republic News Agency said Saturday that 51 percent of eligible voters cast their ballot in 12 provinces where counting has been completed.
Nationwide, 40 percent of the 38.5 million electorate voted, the independent Salam newspaper said quoting sources the Interior Ministry.
The official media on Friday claimed an ``unprecedented'' participation by voters.
The Election Committee said a record 64.35 percent voter turnout was noted in Golestan province.
Golestan residents, contacted by telephone, disputed that.
``The stations were empty.
How those ballots got there, I have no idea,'' said Parvin, who would only give her first name.
She was reached by telephone in Gorgan, capital of Golestan.
She said she visited several polling stations and found very few people voting.
Associated Press reporters who toured polling stations in Tehran Friday also found many of them deserted.
An opposition Iranian group in exile, the National Council of Resistance in Iran, claimed that only about 10 percent of the electorate voted.
``So extensive was the boycott that the ruling clerics were speaking of religiously sanctioned rigging,'' the NCRI said in a statement issued in Washington and faxed to The Associated Press in Cairo, Egypt.
It said authorities stuffed ballot boxes and the regime planned to announce a turnout several times the actual figure.
There was no independent confirmation of the claim and voters in Iran did not openly complain of rigging.
Iran's conservatives won a decisive victory in elections for a clergy-based assembly that oversees the country's supreme leader, official results showed Sunday.
The results came as no surprise since most moderates had been dropped from the ballot in advance of Friday's election by a council that reviews candidates's eligibility and is dominated by hard-liners.
The results showed that only about 18 million of the 38.5 million eligible voters had bothered to cast ballots.
&UR; MORE
Iran's conservatives won a decisive victory in elections for a clergy-based assembly that oversees the country's supreme leader, official results showed Sunday.
The results came as no surprise since most moderates had been dropped from the ballot in advance of Friday's election by a council that reviews candidates's eligibility and is dominated by hard-liners.
The results showed that only about 18 million of the 38.5 million eligible voters had bothered to cast ballots.
Iran's conservatives won a decisive victory in elections for a clergy-based assembly that oversees the country's supreme leader, official results showed Sunday.
The results were expected since most moderates had been dropped from the ballot in advance of Friday's election by a council that reviews candidates's eligibility and is dominated by hard-liners.
The hard-liners won at least 54 places on the 86-seat Assembly of Experts and the moderates only 13.
Sixteen seats went to candidates whose political affiliation was unclear _ but who probably lean toward the hard-line camp _ and three to declared independents, who are believed to be closer the moderates.
The outcome is a blow to moderates who had hoped to use the Assembly of Experts to curb the absolute powers of the supreme leader and broaden social and political freedoms for the average Iranian.
In the capital, Tehran, moderate former President Hashemi Rafsanjani led the polls with 1,682,882 votes.
Behind him was hard-liner Ali Meshkini, the current head of the Assembly of Experts, with 1,240,524 votes.
Hard-liners won 11 of the 16 seats in Tehran and moderates only five.
Among the hard-liners who won in the capital were Mohammad Yazdi, head of the powerful judiciary, and Ahmad Jannati, who leads the council that vetted the candidates.
The results showed that only about 18 million of the 38.5 million eligible voters had bothered to cast ballots.
The official media had reported crowded polling stations and a massive turnout, but visits to Tehran stations showed many nearly empty and calls to other parts of the country produced similar reports.
Many Iranians said they stayed away to protest the dropping of most progressive theologians by the conservative-dominated Council of Guardians.
The council reviewed a list of 396 applicants and allowed only 167 to run.
Friday's voter turnout was in sharp contrast to last year's presidential elections, when some 30 million cast ballots, 20 million of whom voted for President Mohammad Khatami, who has presented the biggest challenge to the conservatives since the 1979 Islamic revolution.
Some moderate leaders had said in advance they did not expect to win the balloting but still hoped to use the assembly to focus on the growing powers granted to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country's top Shiite Muslim cleric.
The hard-liners want to maintain Khamenei's absolute authority and have battled Khatami's efforts to grant more freedom to the press and the arts and reduce Islamic strictures on the average citizen.
&UR; sf-ggl
Iran's conservatives won a decisive victory in elections for a clergy-based assembly that oversees the country's supreme leader, official results showed Sunday.
The results were expected since most moderates had been dropped from the ballot in advance of Friday's election by a council that reviews candidates's eligibility and is dominated by hard-liners.
The hard-liners won at least 54 places on the 86-seat Assembly of Experts and the moderates only 13.
Sixteen seats went to candidates whose political affiliation was unclear _ but who probably lean toward the hard-line camp _ and three to declared independents, who are believed to be closer to the moderates.
The outcome is a blow to moderates who had hoped to use the Assembly of Experts to curb the absolute powers of the supreme leader and broaden social and political freedoms for the average Iranian.
In the capital, Tehran, moderate former President Hashemi Rafsanjani led the polls with 1,682,882 votes.
Behind him was hard-liner Ali Meshkini, the current head of the Assembly of Experts, with 1,240,524 votes.
Hard-liners won 11 of the 16 seats in Tehran and moderates only five.
Among the hard-liners who won in the capital were Mohammad Yazdi, head of the powerful judiciary, and Ahmad Jannati, who leads the council that vetted the candidates.
The results showed that only about 18 million of the 38.5 million eligible voters had bothered to cast ballots.
The official media had reported crowded polling stations and a massive turnout, but visits to Tehran stations showed many nearly empty and calls to other parts of the country produced similar reports.
Many Iranians said they stayed away to protest the dropping of most progressive theologians by the conservative-dominated Council of Guardians.
The council reviewed a list of 396 applicants and allowed only 167 to run.
Friday's voter turnout was in sharp contrast to last year's presidential elections, when some 30 million cast ballots, 20 million of whom voted for President Mohammad Khatami, who has presented the biggest challenge to the conservatives since the 1979 Islamic revolution.
Some moderate leaders had said in advance they did not expect to win the balloting but still hoped to use the assembly to focus on the growing powers granted to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country's top Shiite Muslim cleric.
The hard-liners want to maintain Khamenei's absolute authority and have battled Khatami's efforts to grant more freedom to the press and the arts and reduce Islamic strictures on the average citizen.
For four days in September 1998 Hurricane Georges plowed through the Caribbean affecting more than 30 million people.
A high pressure system kept the storm on its east-to-west course.
More than 500 were killed, more than 138,000 left homeless and property damage exceeded $5 billion.
Authorities in Haiti and the Dominican Republic seemed unprepared as reflected in death rates of 221 and more than 280 respectively.
Widespread destruction of homes in Haiti and Puerto Rico presented major problems of funding because of the number of uninsured homes and the lack of local financial resources, but U.S. and international assistance was quickly arranged.
Hurricane Georges, with winds up to 135 mph, plowed over and past 17 Caribbean islands for 11 days in September 1998, causing billions of dollars in destruction and killing at least 500 people.
The numbers of homeless are staggering, with more than 100,000 people left homeless in the Dominican Republic alone.
U.S. taxpayers are sure to foot most of the bill in Puerto Rico, where 30,000 homes were destroyed and another 60,000 damaged.
The Caribbean tourist industry's position remained good since many important tourist destinations were spared.
The varied island societies prepared and reacted to Hurricane Georges in radically different ways.
For eleven days in September, Hurricane Georges 110-135 mph winds plowed across the Caribbean, killing at least 500 people and inflicting more than $5 billion in property damage before expiring over Georgia.
The numbers of homeless is staggering.
Hard-hit Antigua, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and St. Kitts will be hurt further by the continuing loss of tourism.
Fortunately, many tourist areas escaped unscathed: the Windward Island group, Trinidad and Tobago, the Dutch Islands, the Bahamas, Cayman Islands, Jamaica and the Turks and Caicos.
U.S. aid will be needed for rebuilding, particularly in underinsured Puerto Rico and destitute Haiti.
Hurricane Georges, packing winds up to 110 mph, swept through the northern  Caribbean killing over 400 people, leaving at least 140,000 homeless, and  causing billions in property damage.
In Puerto Rico alone, though the residents  were forewarned of the hurricane's approach, nearly 30,000 houses were destroyed.
The cost of rebuilding the homes will be largely borne by the residents and U.S.  taxpayers, since most homeowners are uninsured.
Haiti, the poorest nation in the  Western hemisphere was a disaster zone.
There, mudslides and floods killed a total  of 221 people, 102 in Fonds Verettes.
Georges, however, spared many other Caribbean  tourist destinations.
It plowed over and past 17 Caribbean islands, crashing into the lives of more than 30 million people.
As each island fell prey to Hurricane Georges' battering winds, the casualties mounted.
They are mounting still.
And as they do, island nations are coming to grips with lost harvests, wrecked government buildings, lost tourist income and sudden populations of newly homeless.
Many past hurricanes damaged only a few islands.
Repairs were often quick.
Georges was different.
It swept past island after island in the northern Caribbean, causing billions of dollars in destruction and killing at least 400 people.
In some nations, like tiny St. Kitts, Georges ruined the crucial winter tourism season and sugar crop on which the islanders stake their lives.
In the Dominican Republic, the immediate concern is survival.
More than a week after Georges' 110 mph (177 kph) winds hit, searchers were still looking for survivors in towns swamped by flooding, or combing through deep muck in the grim task of finding the dead.
The numbers of homeless are staggering: More than 100,000 in the Dominican Republic, 18,000 and counting in Haiti, at least 17,000 in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, and 3,000 in St. Kitts _ a tenth of that island's population.
Along with shelter, the refugees need food, water, ice, clothing _ needs that have overwhelmed the region's small economies and taxed the disaster response capabilities of the United States, France and other donor nations.
Damage to popular hotels like Puerto Rico's bluff-top El Conquistador Resort, and splintered windows in oceanfront condominiums, underscore a physical and economic vulnerability that the Caribbean's people know but would rather forget.
There was a surprise bright spot: The U.S. Virgin Islands _ battered by Hurricane Hugo in 1989 and 1995's Marilyn, which destroyed 80 percent of the homes on St. Thomas _ emerged relatively unscathed despite being in Georges' path.
``It's a miracle,'' crowed Elizabeth Armstrong, general manager of the Buccaneer Hotel on St. Croix.
Still, Armstrong worries tourists will be scared away from the Virgin Islands by Georges' rampage elsewhere.
``It was such a big storm that I'm afraid people will believe the whole Caribbean was damaged,'' Armstrong said.
Much of it was.
Airline service and shipping were disrupted.
Entire islands plunged into darkness _ including Puerto Rico and its 4 million people _ and thousands of businesses closed.
The storm's economic cost has yet to be calculated.
In Puerto Rico alone, property damage has surpassed dlrs 2 billion.
Without power, food spoiled in refrigerators, and fights broke out in hours-long ice lines.
Beneath a canopy of suddenly bright stars over San Juan, candles flickered in windows and drivers negotiated streets made unfamiliar by fallen trees and the enveloping dark.
Given the Caribbean's dependence on tourism _ it earns dlrs 14 billion a year and employs half a million people _ promoters are emphasizing the rapid rebuilding in such places as Puerto Rico and Antigua.
And they note that in the Windward Islands in the southeastern Caribbean and in Jamaica, it is business as usual.
In San Juan, giant white cruise ships, their lights blazing across San Juan Bay, have resumed their weekly visits.
Spectacular pink and purple sunsets have returned, a dramatic backdrop to the committed navy of surfers and boogie boarders riding the waves off Condado beach.
Old San Juan's blue cobblestone streets are bustling again with strollers and shoppers.
Still, Antigua, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and St. Kitts could lose tourism in coming months, said Michael Spinks of the Barbados-based Caribbean Tourism Organization.
Last year, more than 1.7 million non-cruise tourists visited the Dominican Republic, and Cuba and Puerto Rico welcomed more than 1.1 million each.
St. Kitts and Nevis earned more than dlrs 25 million from tourists.
&UR; MORE
Things could have been worse.
Georges flirted with catastrophic 150 mph (240 kph) winds over the Atlantic, but entered the Caribbean near Guadeloupe in a somewhat diminished state.
Still, by the time Georges left Cuba four days and 1,200 miles (1,900 kilometers) later, even the usually stoic National Weather Service was calling Georges ``the hurricane that just won't die.''
A high pressure system dubbed the Bermuda High kept Georges on its destructive east-to-west track, said meteorologist Jim Lushine at the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami.
So instead of striking an island or two and then spinning northward out of the region as hurricanes generally do, Georges hit again and again.
It smashed public housing in Antigua, swamped the beaches of Guadeloupe and splintered the glass walls of St. Kitts' new airport terminal.
``Hurricane mash up my life,'' Verna McHenry said through tears while she picked through the soiled, sodden remains of her home on Antigua.
In Puerto Rico, where three people were killed, the squatter community of Diamond Point kept its dazzling hilltop view of the sea but little else.
Georges smashed its dozens of squatter homes.
In its wake, strangers and neighbors banded together to clear debris, stand in tedious lines for ice, water, propane and batteries and carry food to the needy.
Crossing the Mona Passage, Georges bore down on Hispaniola, an impoverished island of 15 million shared by Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
Its substandard housing proved no match for 110 mph (177 kph) winds, and emergency officials seemed unprepared for the disaster.
Fed by up to 20 inches (50 centimeters) of rain, rivers swelled into mile-wide (1 1/2-kilometer-wide) torrents that swamped villages, entombed dozens of people under tons of mud in a Dominican shelter and left thousands stranded for days.
Helicopters had to drop food rations to survivors.
In Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital, officials opened some shelters only after Georges was pelting the city with sheets of rain and dangerous flying debris.
``They were overconfident,'' said Hugh Parmer, head of disaster relief for the U.S. Agency for International Development.
``When the thing hit, they were totally unprepared to respond.''
The United States shipped more than dlrs 500,000 of supplies, including plastic sheeting to roof thousands of homes.
U.S. helicopters are helping deliver supplies to victims.
Authorities also seemed unprepared in Haiti, where heavy rain flooded the Artibonite Valley, the country's breadbasket.
``We're trying to save what we can,'' said farmer Jean Roberto Jean-Baptiste, working in a flooded rice paddy.
Georges left Haiti, the Western Hemisphere's poorest nation, utterly dependent on foreign aid to help storm victims.
The Dominican Republic, considered one of the region's up-and-coming economic and political players, suffered a blow to its development.
Fidel Castro seemed relieved in Cuba, where only five people were killed after evacuations to safe zones.
``The first victory was to reduce the losses,'' Castro proclaimed.
The same can't be said for the Dominican Republic.
Asked how many people died in his country, the Dominican health undersecretary, Victor Terrero, replied: ``I'll confess something to you.
I have no idea.''
At a shelter in Puerto Rico last week, Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke of a dlrs 39 million dollar U.S. grant to rebuild hurricane-ravaged homes.
But two weeks after Hurricane Georges pummeled this U.S. territory, thousands still languish in schools, community centers and the homes of family and friends _ and her pledge looks like a drop in the bucket.
The cost of getting the homeless into homes will be far greater than virtually anyone had imagined, probably well beyond dlrs 1 billion.
And U.S. taxpayers are sure to foot most of the bill.
Officials originally estimated overall property damage to the island _ including roads, public buildings, parks, beaches _ at dlrs 2 billion, a figure now believed to be underestimated.
So far, the effort to solve the homeless crisis has been accompanied by confusion.
Officials still don't know how many homeless there are _ or how to give them homes.
Aside from killing three people on the island, Georges destroyed nearly 30,000 houses and damaged at least another 60,000, the local Housing Department estimates.
Those left homeless can receive up to dlrs 25,000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as well as dlrs 13,500 to buy new appliances and furniture.
Puerto Rico authorities now say the FEMA program, which would allow residents to rebuild their wood and zinc homes, may be ill-advised because it will leave new homes as vulnerable to hurricanes as the old ones.
Gov. Pedro Rosello instead wants federal block grants that, combined with money from Puerto Rico's local budget, would subsidize more expensive cement homes located out of harm's way.
Under his plan, hurricane victims would purchase houses worth dlrs 65,000 for dlrs 15,000, with mortgage payments of about dlrs 100 per month.
``Even though this has been a disaster for Puerto Rico, we should look at this as an opportunity to build something better than what we had before,'' explained Puerto Rico's Housing Secretary, Ana Carmen Alemany.
The plan was presented to Housing Secretary Andrew Cuomo when he arrived in Puerto Rico last week with Mrs. Clinton.
``We are banking on having Secretary Cuomo going back to President Clinton and (FEMA director) James Lee Witt and expressing to them support for this program,'' Alemany said.
In the meantime, 15,000 Puerto Rican hurricane victims remain holed up in shelters.
More are staying with friends and relatives, though no one knows exactly how many.
Concrete decisions on solving their longterm plight have taken a back seat to the immediate need to restore water and electricity and provide temporary shelter.
``As of now, there is no program yet,'' admitted Bessie Figueroa, the Puerto Rico Housing Department's liaison to FEMA.
San Juan Mayor Sila Calderon said most of Georges' homeless represent ``the other face of Puerto Rico'': unwed mothers, welfare recipients, the unemployed, those in homes most vulnerable to disaster.
``These are people who are still waiting to participate in the development we've had over the past 50 years,'' she said.
Searchers recovered more bodies over the weekend from tons of gravel deposited by storm flooding in a southeastern Haitian town, pushing the national death toll from Hurricane Georges past 150, officials said Monday.
Seventeen bodies were recovered in Fonds Verrettes, a mountain town 50 miles (80 kilometers) east of Port-au-Prince, bringing the town's death toll to 102, said Rep. Francois Sanozier, who represents the area.
Earlier, officials said at least 85 people were killed in Fonds Verrettes, population 27,000.
The nationwide death toll of at least 150 people was released before the 17 new victims of the Sept. 23 floods were recovered.
In all, Georges killed at least 430 people throughout the Caribbean.
Forty years ago, Fonds Verrettes flourished at the foot of wooded mountains, but farm incomes fell and impoverished peasants cut down trees to make charcoal.
With no forest cover to absorb Georges' torrential rains, storm runoff crashed through the town, destroying dozens of homes and buildings.
``We asked the government to build drainage canals.
But nothing was done.
Now it is too late,'' said Fonds Verrettes Mayor Nelson Frankel.
An Interior Ministry spokesman, Phares Pierre, told Radio Haiti-Inter on Monday that the central government had decided to relocate the town out of harm's way, but gave no further details.
A government delegation brought rice, sugar, beans and water for hurricane victims on Saturday, and more aid was expected this week.
Haiti has only dlrs 23 million to rebuild roads, bridges and irrigation canals destroyed by Hurricane Georges, less than half of what is needed for just the hardest-hit areas, the government says.
Even before the storm caused floods and mudslides that killed 221 people, Haiti, the poorest country in the Western hemisphere, was a disaster zone.
The U.N. Human Development Index ranked the Caribbean nation No. 159 out of 174 countries in terms of income, life expectancy and education level.
About 700 million gourdes (dlrs 43.8 million) is needed to rebuild after the Sept. 23 hurricane, Finance and Economics Minister Fred Joseph said at a news conference Friday.
He said that would cover only the worst-hit areas.
The United States has pledged 210 million gourdes (dlrs 13.1 million) and the Washington-based Inter-American Development Bank 132 million gourdes (dlrs 8.3 million) in emergency aid for infrastructure.
Haiti's cash-strapped government _ embroiled in a political power struggle for 1 1/2 years that has stalled millions of dollars in foreign aid _ can contribute only 25 million gourdes (dlrs 1.6 million), Joseph said.
The U.N. Development Program donated dlrs 100,000 and Taiwan dlrs 300,000.
Canada, Germany, Japan, and Spain donated additional hundreds of thousands of dollars.
France, Haiti's former colonizer, sent specialists to help purify water and treat the injured.
In addition, dozens of tons of material have been flown in from private international sources to help hurricane victims.
In his estimate, Joseph did not even mention the cost of rebuilding thousands of homes ripped apart by the storm and more than 56,000 head of livestock killed.
Most Haitian deaths were blamed on flooding and mudslides in rural, mountainous areas.
A flash flood nearly destroyed the southeastern border town of Fonds Verrettes, where 102 people died.
For generations, Haitian peasants have cut down trees to make charcoal, denuding mountains left incapable of absorbing rainfall.
In economic terms, the hardest hit was the central Artibonite Valley, which is Haiti's bread basket.
Filled to overflowing by torrential rainfall, the Lake Peligre hydroelectric dam there threatened to burst.
The floodgates were opened, and a terrestrial tidal wave covered hundreds of thousands of acres (hectares) of farmland.
Economists predict a sharp rise in the cost of living since rice and beans, Haiti's staples, will have to be imported in greater quantities.
Earlier this month, Joseph estimated agricultural damage alone at more than dlrs 300 million.
&QL; 	NATIONAL FORECAST &QL; 	Frost will cover patches of the landscape from the western Great Lakes to the northern Ohio Valley on Friday morning.
High pressure stretching from Manitoba to West Virginia will promote mainly sunny, but very cool conditions in the Northeast quarter of the nation, with afternoon temperatures mostly in the 50s and 60s.
A pool of very cold air at 15,000 feet over western New England will cause clouds and a few showers to develop in the hilly terrain.
Brisk breezes from the northwest will gust over 25 miles an hour in the Northeast.
Drier and cooler air will circulate into the Southeast behind a stalled front in the Gulf states.
A few thundershowers will attend the front in northern Florida and southern Georgia.
High pressure in the central Gulf of Mexico will direct very warm and humid air into the southern Plains and lower Mississippi Valley.
As sultry air pushes northward into the Plains, it will be further lifted by a strong jet stream disturbance over Nebraska and the result will be widespread clouds and showers.
A cold rain will dampen the lower Missouri Valley with showers developing farther north.
Several strong thunderstorms may form in west-central Texas.
A wedge of warm, dry air will cover the Southwest.
More chilly, moist air will sweep into the Northwest behind a strengthening cold front in the northern Rockies.
Showers will fall from the Cascades to the coast.
Gusty winds will accompany showers in the Bitterroots.
The central Rockies should notice increasing clouds as the front approaches.
Focus: Triple Tropical Team &QL; 	Rainfall at Mobile, Ala., totaled 24.12 inches in last month, marking the city's wettest September on record.
The previous mark for September rainfall was 15.5 inches, set in 1913.
Moreover, September's total was 18.21 inches above the average for the month.
Such inflated rainfalls along the Gulf Coast in September can only occur when tropical systems are involved.
During September, the tropical trio of Hurricane Georges, Hurricane Earl and Tropical Storm Hermine each dumped substantial rains on Mobile, boosting last month's total to its highest total in 85 years.
&QL;
The voice that haunts Bill Becker is a woman's, filled with fear, who dialed in the dark on Sept. 25 as Hurricane Georges reached its 100 mph peak over the Florida Keys.
She was huddled in a closet, her house shaking, a phone in one ear and a portable radio tuned to WWUS-FM, said Becker, news director of the station.
As water ran under his feet and chunks of concrete ripped out of the studio roof, Becker chatted with the woman and hundreds of others in the area.
``We were the only thing connecting these people,'' Becker said.
``They were describing the water rising.
They were asking, `How high is it going to get?'
You could hear the howling of the wind in their phones.''
In an industry dominated by group ownership and satellite-fed formats with disembodied voices, the sound of neighbors holding hands on the air seems almost old-fashioned.
``It was absolutely essential,'' said the Monroe County sheriff, Richard Roth.
``We wound up using that as our main source for supplying information.''
Usually, WWUS, owned by Crain Communications of Chicago, is live only between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. with news and a flea market.
At 11 a.m. the station plugs in an oldies satellite feed from Westwood One and CNN newscasts.
But shortly after Georges arrived around dawn on Sept. 25, with 30,000 people still in the Keys, the station's general manager, Bob Soos, opened the phones.
Six lines jammed immediately.
At 10 a.m. the satellite dish blew away.
By noon an inch of water had turned the carpets into sponges.
Callers reported yachts floating in back yards.
``You couldn't show people you were scared, though I really was,'' Gene Michaels, the operations manager, said.
As night fell and the worst of the winds struck Key West, studio lights flickered.
Michaels played Don McLean's eight-and-a-half-minute-long ``American Pie,'' giving him time to suck up water with a shop vacuum.
He signed off at 1 a.m. as the hurricane headed for the Gulf Coast.
For 11 days last month, Hurricane Georges plowed across the Caribbean, killing at least 500 people and inflicting property damage estimated at more than $5 billion as it weaved through nearly a dozen countries before expiring as an early fall rainstorm although not for the entire region and not necessarily for the tourist industry on which the area's economy depends.
In other words, damage, though extensive, was selective.
Indeed, the majority of Caribbean islands were not affected at all by the storm and its winds, which reached a peak of 135 miles an hour.
Georges may have inflicted widespread destruction throughout the Greater Antilles, but ``most of our 32 member states were untouched,'' said Jean Holder, secretary general of the Caribbean Tourism Organization.
``So over all, our position, as usual, is a good one, and we want the traveling public to be in no doubt as to that situation.''
The entire Windward Islands group of the Eastern Caribbean, for example, was bypassed by the storm, meaning that visitors thinking of traveling to Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, the Grenadines, Martinique, St. Lucia or St. Vincent have no reason to change plans.
Similarly, Trinidad and Tobago, the Dutch islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao and Margarita Island just off Venezuela were all outside the hurricane zone.
The Bahamas, Cayman Islands, Jamaica and the Turks and Caicos Islands also were not affected by Georges.
Even on the larger islands that suffered a direct hit, such as Puerto Rico and Hispaniola, many important tourist destinations were spared.
Though parts of the southeastern Dominican Republic were severely damaged, for instance, and will not return to full normal operations for weeks, all of the hotels, restaurants and attractions in popular northern-coast towns such as Puerto Plata are reported to be functioning normally.
So, as always, it is advisable to check with travel agents, hotel chains and national tourist offices about conditions at specific locales and properties.
Though hotels were the section of the tourism infrastructure that proved most vulnerable to Georges' depredations, as is clear in the country-by-country assessment below, the storm also forced the closing of several major airports, including the regional hub in San Juan.
But at American Airlines, the principal carrier in the region, and its affiliate, American Eagle, Caribbean service is pretty much back to normal, said Al Becker, a company spokesman, except for La Romana, in the eastern Dominican Republic.
There, he said, regular daily jet flights from Miami are not scheduled to resume until December, though prop service from San Juan has been restored.
According to airline and tourism officials, a few other airports remained available on a limited basis into October because, for instance, damage to landing towers, radar equipment or runway lights prevents after-dark landings.
Mayaguez, in Puerto Rico, and St. Croix, in the United States Virgin Islands, fell into that category, but have now returned to normal operations.
In St. Kitts, where an extensive renovation and expansion of Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport had been completed just weeks before the storm struck, restrictions are still in force.
``That is God's hand,'' Dwyer Astaphan, minister of tourism for St. Kitts and Nevis, said resignedly early this month.
``We received damage to the tower and also to our terminal, but procurement is in process right now, and there is no reason why we cannot be completely finished with repairs by Dec. 1.''
Cruise lines, on the other hand, say they were virtually unaffected.
Many vessels were still on summer routes in the Mediterranean and Alaska when Georges was ripping through, and will be returning to the Caribbean only this month.
``The only place we really ran into problems was Key West,'' said Rich Steck, a spokesman for Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, ``and since they really have got their hands full now and are closed to tourism anyway, we are going to be substituting other destinations, such as Nassau, until things are under better control there.''
In addition, one pier at the harbor in San Juan, which is second only to South Florida as a home port for cruise ships, suffered damage, according to officials of the Puerto Rican government.
But that has caused no inconvenience because ``we have enough other docks to receive cruises'' at the main harbor, said Jorge Davila, executive director of the Puerto Rico Tourism Co.
The damage at Port Zante in St. Kitts, opened in 1997, was somewhat more serious, officials there said, but not enough to require cancellation of cruises.
``The first cruise ship to come in was on Oct. 8, a Norwegian Cruise Line Vessel with a capacity of 1,534 passengers,'' Astaphan said.
Those returning vessels are tying up not at Port Zante but at old piers nearby.
``I am advised they will be replaced within three to five months,'' he said.
``In the interim, vessels with up to 1,600 passengers can tie up at the old pier, which is where they tied up previously.''
On islands that bore the brunt of the storm, beaches, tropical forests, golf courses and nature reserves were also damaged.
So even though hotels in the affected areas may be functioning again, the landscape may not appear as lush as it normally does, and some visitors may therefore wish to postpone trips.
On the other hand, tourism authorities on several islands say they may institute cut-rate packages this winter to lure back reluctant travelers.
In addition, damage to fields and crops on several islands means that some food items may be unavailable at hotels or considerably more expensive.
In the end, then, whether or not to go to the Caribbean during the coming high season is largely a matter of individual preference.
A survey of the most affected islands follows, adhering to the same northwesterly course as the hurricane: 	nn 	ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA _ Most of the destruction in this nation involved residences: Officials estimate that more than half of all homes suffered some damage.
But at least half of Antigua's 28 main hotels were also affected.
Most are back in business, but the Caribbean Hotel Association reports that several do not plan to reopen until December.
Among them are the Pineapple Beach Club, the Inn at English Harbor, Coco Point Lodge, the Galleon Beach Club and the Hawksbill Beach Resort.
ST. KITTS and NEVIS _ Both of the islands that make up the smallest country in the Caribbean were struck with considerable force, which damaged residences and government buildings.
``Every area was impacted, some more than others,'' Astaphan said.
Government officials estimate that 85 percent of homes suffered some damage, most of it to roofs, and put preliminary estimates of repairs at nearly $500 million.
On Nevis, the smaller of the pair, many of the elegant plantation homes that attract upscale visitors have recovered quickly.
But the island's main resort, the Four Seasons, is not expected to reopen until Dec. 15, due in part to beach erosion.
Nearly half the buildings at the Hurricane Cove Bungalows are said to have been leveled, but the hotel remains open.
Both the Fort Thomas Hotel and Jack Tar Village Resort and Casino on St. Kitts are closed.
Officials said the Fort Thomas probably will not open this season and that the Jack Tar, the biggest property on the island, is likely to remain closed until May.
NETHERLANDS ANTILLES _ On St. Maarten, Princess Juliana Airport remained open throughout the storm, an indication that the island was pummeled by less than full-force winds.
Almost all of the 19 hotels and condominiums are said to have full power, water and telephone service, although some residential areas were still without electricity early in October, and the Millennium Beach Resort and Maho Beach Hotel and Casino are expected to be closed at least until December.
Nearby, tiny St. Eustatius was hard hit by the storm.
As a result, one-sixth of the island's homes lost roofs, residents were still being advised to boil water as of mid-October, and extensive damage to natural foliage was reported.
Hotels and restaurants, however, are fully operational.
UNITED STATES VIRGIN ISLANDS _ Early reports of widespread damage on all three main islands have proved exaggerated.
Such well-known destinations as Caneel Bay on St. John, the Buccaneer on St. Croix and the Ritz-Carlton on St. Thomas briefly stopped taking guests and reservations, but returned to normal after a quick cleanup.
Airline service is normal and all attractions are open.
PUERTO RICO _ By official tally, more than $2 billion in damages was inflicted to property across the island.
In the San Juan area, several hotels suffered significant damage and, according to the Caribbean Hotel Association, remain closed for repairs, among them the Condado Plaza, Crowne Plaza, Ramada Hotel Condado and Radisson Normandie.
Farther away, the hotels most seriously affected appeared to be the Hyatt Dorado Beach, which tourism officials expect will reopen Nov. 9, and the Hyatt Regency Cerromar, whose tentative reopening date is Dec. 15.
The most significant problem in the wake of the storm was the lack of electricity.
An extraordinarily high level of preparedness mitigated some of the havoc caused by Georges on other islands, but could not prevent damage to power lines and generators.
Telephone service was restored almost immediately; water supplies returned shortly afterward.
``By Oct. 25, we expect that complete electrical service will pretty much be restored in metropolitan San Juan,'' said Davila of the Puerto Rico Tourism Company.
But, he added, it may take a little bit longer in the central mountains, where some paradores, or inns, are.
The luxury Horned Dorset Primavera Hotel, in Rincon, suffered no structural damage, but was closed until Oct. 8 because it had no utilities.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC _ The highest human toll, more than 280 dead and at least 100,000 homeless according to official estimates, was inflicted here, and the country remains in a state of shock and mourning.
Also, the government has come under fire for its alleged lack of preparedness, and the population has complained about slow restoration of public services, electricity in particular.
The most severe damage to tourist facilities was concentrated in the east, around La Romana and Punta Cana.
The area's best-known resort, Casa de Campo, is one of several hotels still closed, though a reopening date of Dec. 20 has been set for ``a limited inventory'' of the hotel's 300 rooms and 150 villas.
The Allegro Resort Bavaro and the Viva Dominicus expect to be fully operational by mid-November, but the Casa del Mar is scheduled to remain closed until Dec. 1, and officials say the Allegro Resort Caribbean Village Decameron should be able to resume operations by Christmas.
HAITI _ The tourist infrastructure in the Western Hemisphere's poorest nation is so ramshackle even under ordinary circumstances that it has been hard to detect Georges' impact.
Hotels in Port-au-Prince, the capital, were suffering frequent power failures and breakdowns in telephone service in mid-October, a normal state of affairs there.
Georges appears to have done its most severe damage in the Artibonite Valley, far off the tourist track.
Royal Caribbean canceled at least one cruise to Labadie, on the north coast, but that was because of reports of civil unrest, not hurricane damage, said Steck, of Royal Caribbean.
CUBA _ It is off-limits to American tourists, but still draws more than one million visitors a year from other countries.
According to reports from Havana, hotels there were affected only marginally.
Some hotels in northern coastal resorts such as Cayo Coco, however, reported to have suffered some damage, but have now reopened.
&QL;
In many ways, the capital of Puerto Rico does not look strikingly different from cities in the 50 states like Miami, Houston and parts of New York.
There are plenty of modern new office buildings, condominiums and fast-food places.
And, just as in those other cities, Puerto Rico has lots of modest neighborhoods, away from the modern facades, with people who are just getting by.
But Hurricane Georges, which hit the island last month and caused several billion dollars in damages, has brought out one big difference: while nearly every home in the 50 states is insured, insurance executives and government officials estimate that only 30 percent or 40 percent of those here are covered.
The result is that much of the cost of Hurricane Georges in Puerto Rico will not be shouldered by insurance companies.
Instead, it will be borne mostly by the people of the island and the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Washington, using tax dollars collected everywhere but here, because under Puerto Rico's special commonwealth status, its people do not pay Federal taxes.
``There's a different kind of insurance here,'' said Lemuel Toledo, a broker and consultant who has been in the insurance business for nearly 30 years.
``It's called Federal aid.''
While mainland insurers are expected to spend six times what the federal government does for damage from Hurricane Georges in the Gulf Coast states, the government will spend just as much in Puerto Rico as the insurers do: about $1.7 billion each.
``Unfortunately, every time a storm hits an area that is uninsured, or underinsured, taxpayers have to come in and foot much of the bill,'' said Steven Goldstein, a spokesman for the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group in New York.
And something else is increasing federal costs from hurricanes both here and along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.
Insurers, reeling from heavy losses from previous hurricanes, have raised their deductibles to 2 percent of the amount of coverage, up from the old standards of $250 or $500.
For a $100,000 policy the deductible is now $2,000.
One condo complex on the beach here with $25 million in coverage has a deductible of $500,000.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency says that people with big deductibles who need emergency repairs to live in their homes can get government help, and that many homeowners and condo associations may be eligible for federally subsidized loans.
The reason many people in Puerto Rico do not have insurance on their homes, officials and insurers here say, is mostly a matter of money.
While there are plenty of expensive houses and limousines on the island, most people have little money.
Annual income averages $8,500, less than half the average in Mississippi, the poorest state.
But in Mississippi, the majority of homeowners has mortgages and is required by banks to buy insurance.
Here, people often build modest homes without mortgages _ sometimes worth less than $20,000, and they frequently go without insurance.
Moreover, when people here buy insurance they most often buy bare-bones policies that do not cover furniture or theft.
But other reasons also account for the difference.
Not only do most poorer Puerto Ricans count on federal aid to bail them out of disasters, they are also victims, consumer advocates say, of insurers here who essentially ignore lower-income homeowners to concentrate on wealthier clients whose homes are sturdier and who buy policies with higher premiums.
That practice, they say, is a form of discrimination often referred to as redlining, a term that grew out of the practice _ now outlawed _ by insurance companies and banks in places like Philadelphia, Detroit and New York of drawing red lines on maps around neighborhoods they decided to exclude.
Indeed, in the poor neighborhoods on the outskirts of San Juan, people say insurance salesmen never come calling.
Residents say they do not really understand insurance and they assume they cannot afford it.
In the town of Toa Baja, Tanya Davila sat in a kitchen chair in the shade of her concrete-and-wood three-bedroom house, waiting for a representative of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Hurricane Georges ripped off most of her house's tin roofing and most of her belongings were ruined.
The house, Ms. Davila said, is worth about $50,000.
``It never occurred to me to buy insurance,'' she said.
``Nobody ever came to talk to us about insurance.''
Ms. Davila, 42, said she did not know anyone who had homeowner's insurance.
``People don't buy disaster insurance because they know the government is going to take care of them,'' she said.
```If I can get something for free, why pay for it?'
That's not my opinion.
But that's the way a lot of people think.''
In a section of neatly kept homes in the nearby town of Catano, Petra Gonzalez, 78, said she was hoping that FEMA would repair the roof on her $25,000 wood-and-tin house.
``I didn't build this house thinking the government would take care of me if something happened,'' she said.
``I never imagined anything like this could happen.
That's the truth.
I'm a poor person.
I'm an elderly person.
My husband is gone.
If the government doesn't help me, there's nothing I can do.''
Some insurers and brokers acknowledged that it was difficult, if not impossible, to get insurance on the many inexpensive wooden houses in Puerto Rico.
Nor do insurers regard poor sections as prime markets.
``You'd rather deal with the upper- middle-class guy with a $250,000 home and four cars than the guy with a $30,000 home and one car,'' said Toledo, who now concentrates on commercial insurance.
``It takes the same amount of time, but there is so much more premium and so much more commission.''
This is not redlining, Toledo contended.
``Redlining means somebody asks for insurance and you don't sell it,'' he said.
``But if nobody asks, you're not redlining.''
Juan Antonio Garcia, the insurance commissioner of Puerto Rico, also sees no discrimination.
``This is a free-competition market,'' Garcia said.
``The companies are at liberty to write whatever risks they want to write.
People either buy it or they don't.
I can't force them.''
In the United States, J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said insurers had never publicly acknowledged redlining.
Yet several big companies have paid millions to settle suits accusing them of redlining and agreed to open offices in places where there had been no insurance sales force for decades.
``What's going on in Puerto Rico has all the characteristics of red-lining,'' said Hunter, who has made several trips here to work as an adviser to the Puerto Rican government.
</P> 	Jose J. Villamil, a Wharton-educated economist who heads a consulting company, Estudios Tecnicos, which works with the government and private industry, said he did not believe that insurers were deliberately discriminating against the poor.
But Villamil said some of the remedies imposed in redlining lawsuits should be applied in Puerto Rico anyway.
``The government has a role to play in terms of putting pressure on the companies,'' he said.
``The companies should be more pro-active in educating people about insurance and in providing access to insurance.
Maybe they should develop products more in line with people's capacity to buy insurance.''
About a dozen companies, mostly Puerto Rican, sell insurance on the island.
Royal Group, a British insurer with more than 100 years of experience in the Caribbean, is among the leaders.
Only two big United States companies, Nationwide Insurance Enterprise and American International Group, sell homeowners' coverage in Puerto Rico, though Allstate Corp. is preparing to start selling here.
The difficulty of handicapping the risks on an island that lies in the path of hurricanes and in an earthquake zone, combined with the relatively small size of the Puerto Rico market at 3.8 million people, have kept the other big American players away, said Goldstein of the industry group.
``If insurers felt they could add to their bottom line,'' he said, ``they'd be in there.''
The insurance companies began imposing higher deductibles after Hurricane Andrew walloped southern Florida with $15.5 billion in insured losses in 1992.
To get regulatory approval for the change, insurers in the United States threatened to cut back on the number of policies they wrote.
In Puerto Rico, the insurers said that without the 2 percent deductible, the cost of reinsurance would force them to raise premiums beyond the reach of many.
Hunter, a former Texas insurance commissioner, said the high deductibles ``may have been a necessary stopgap'' immediately after Hurricane Andrew.
But the insurance companies could reduce the deductible now without harm to their profit margins, he said adding, ``Reinsurance prices have come way down in the last two or three years.''
In any case, Hunter said, consumers should be given the choice, as they are in some states, of accepting either the high deductible or paying higher premiums.
Jose de la Cruz Skerrett, a plaintiff's lawyer who has often opposed insurance companies in court, estimates that with the 2 percent deductible, 80 percent of the losses from Hurricane Georges in Puerto Rico will turn out to be uninsured.
For some condo owners, the high deductible means significant costs.
At the 13-story Solemar condominium on the beach in San Juan, Ivan Tort, president of the board, estimates damages at $60,000 _ well below the $100,000 deductible on the condo's $5 million policy.
So all the repairs are going to have to be paid by owners of the condo's 30 apartments.
``If you live on an island,'' Tort said, ``it comes with the turf.''
At the 403-apartment Condado del Mar condominium nearby, Luis del Valle is not so sanguine.
Del Valle estimates damage at $1.5 million.
But he says much of the building was unharmed and that the deductible _ now figured at $500,000 _ should not be based on the total value of the complex but only on the affected areas.
``We don't think this is fair,'' del Valle said.
``Yes, we have a contract, but we believe there are some ambiguities.
We're going to court.
We're talking about a lot of money here.''
&QL;
A natural disaster as terrible as Hurricane Mitch, which killed more than 10,000 people in Central America in the past two weeks and left nearly 1 million more homeless, teaches a lot about the way a society does or does not work.
Some institutions and individuals rise to the occasion; others topple like palm trees in the wind.
But the nations of the region always seem to respond in ways that illuminate their history and character.
Nicaragua, for instance, is still grappling with many of the same problems it could not resolve in the 1980s, when the Sandinista National Liberation Front was trying to fend off U.S.-backed Contra rebels in a bloody civil war.
In that polarized political climate, the relief effort here last week was hampered by petty partisan squabbling; the conservative government and the Sandinistas, who are now in opposition, even disagreed over whether it would be more appropriate to declare a ``national disaster'' or a ``state of emergency.''
As people in Posoltega, where more than 1,500 people died in mudslides, waited for help alongside other devastated towns, the two camps jockeyed for control of the distribution of food and medicine _ and the political benefits to come with that.
By late in the week, with popular discontent rising, the damage caused by the partisanship seemed to impress even some politicians.
President Arnoldo Aleman said he would cede the supervision of relief activities to the Roman Catholic Church, while Gen. Joaquin Cuadra, the Sandinista who commands the armed forces, belatedly called for national unity.
Another recent storm, Hurricane Georges, provided insights that are at least as striking in September.
Faced with the threat of 135-mile-per-hour winds, three Caribbean island societies that have adopted radically different social and political models, even though they were all once Spanish colonies, responded in conspicuously different ways.
In Puerto Rico, a U.S. possession, the government leaped into action as soon as the first hurricane watch was issued.
Television stations repeatedly broadcast warnings to stay indoors and put up hurricane shutters, provided advice on stockpiling food and water and showed footage of past storms to remind the island's 3.5 million residents of what they might face.
As soon as Georges passed, utility repair crews were out restoring service and federal Emergency Management Agency teams were preparing reports and sending money.
Next door in the Dominican Republic, disorganization was the watchword.
Newspapers there have complained that the civil defense chief, Elpidio Baez, failed to issue storm warnings because he did not want to alarm people.
He denies that, but television and radio stations continued to broadcast soap operas and merengue competitions until just before the storm struck.
Some people who went to hurricane shelters found them closed and were turned away by soldiers.
There are even reports that officials opened a dam on the verge of buckling without advising residents living downstream, some of whom later drowned.
The government denies those accounts, but an official of the U.S. Agency for International Development said it was clear that overall, ``when the thing hit, they were totally unprepared to respond.''
The hurricane then moved on to Cuba, which, true to form for a militarized totalitarian state, responded as if the storm were an enemy to be vanquished.
President Fidel Castro instructed residents of affected zones to evacuate, an order that was enforced by the military and local security watchdogs and may have saved many lives.
Afterward, the Communist Party newspaper Granma praised Cubans for their ``revolutionary discipline'' and successful ``combat'' against Georges, whose ``destructive force'' amounted to ``a kind of invasion.''
Throughout the Caribbean basin, though, there is also a common thread.
Just as it seems that hurricanes striking the United States inevitably gravitate toward trailer parks, here the poorest are also the most vulnerable and seem to suffer the most, regardless of who governs.
``We've lived through earthquakes, a pair of civil wars, volcanic eruptions, tidal waves and now this, all in the last 25 years,'' said Maria Lourdes Rodriguez, a peasant who lives north of here.
``When is God going to take pity on us?''
Congressional work on the budget was marked along party lines as Democrats sought  to include more funding for social and environmental issues while the Republicans  sought to push tax cut issues as well as seeking changes to the IMF.
When Congress  failed to adopt a budget by the end of the fiscal year, it voted a continuing  spending resolution to keep the government operating.
As talks bogged down, the  threat of another government shutdown began to loom.
Republicans, wanting to keep  public focus on the Clinton impeachment proceedings, backed away from some of the  more unpopular riders on the bills, especially some anti-environment issues.
As the end of the fiscal year draws near, congress has completed work on only four of the thirteen spending bills.
Partisan bickering abounds as Republicans and Democrats find reasons to blame each other.
Temporary extensions of current spending levels have been passed in order to keep the government running.
Such delays are not uncommon since many congressmen hope to slip-in pet projects at the last minute to avoid critical notice.
Republicans have compromised to concentrate on the coming impeachment hearings and believing that they can prevail in the next session.
IMF finding and a tax cut proposal were measures where compromises are possible.
Five days before money for the new fiscal year was to run out, Democrats accused  the Republicans of deliberately moving slow on the 13 spending bills needed to  keep the government from closing down.
The situation was complicated by Republicans  promoting bills with anti-environmental riders subject to veto by the President,  plus demands for full funding for IMF.
The Republicans began to back down, however,  apparently to focus more on impeachment and to prepare for November elections.
They  compromised on environmental issues, a much smaller tax cut plan, and a conditional  loan to the IMF to avert international economic crisis.
At fiscal year's end on Sept. 30, 1998, Congress had not approved 13 necessary  spending bills, so voted emergency funding to keep the government running through  Oct. 9th, then Oct. 12th.
Members were eager to campaign at home for re-election  but also to ensure funding for pet projects.
Some bills risked veto because of  anti-environmental riders.
Several bills combined into an omnibus bill would make  veto difficult.
Republicans, vowing  to avoid another shutdown that would distract  attention from impeachment, became willing to resolve spending issues and dropped  huge tax cut demands.
Final unresolved issues included  funding for the IMF and  emergencies, and census technique.
Clinton consulted other governments on proposed  IMF changes.
With just five days until money for the new fiscal year runs out, President Clinton and Congressional Democrats on Monday escalated their criticism of Republican leaders for not moving faster on the 13 spending bills needed to keep the government running.
So far, Congress has completed work on only four of those bills.
Congress and the president have adopted a temporary spending measure that expires Friday night at midnight.
Republicans in both houses said Monday that they expected to complete action on three or four other bills but would probably have to roll the remaining legislation into one big catchall package to meet the Friday deadline.
If they do not meet that deadline, they could extend it, although they would probably do so for only a day or two at a time.
If they neither met the deadline nor extended it, parts of the government would shut down.
Rep. Richard A. Gephardt, D-Mo., the House Democratic leader, was particularly harsh in his criticism of the majority Republicans Monday, five days into the 1999 fiscal year.
``In my view, this is the worst Congress that has ever sat in the United States Capitol, that has achieved less than any Congress that we've ever had,'' Gephardt said at the White House after meeting with the president.
``Republicans have wasted the entire year and have left the heavy lifting until the last week.''
Republicans, whom much of the public held responsible for partial government shutdowns in 1995-96, said Monday that comments like Gephardt's were proof that congressional Democrats and the administration were itching for a fight over the spending bills.
In fact, they said, they suspect that the Democrats would even welcome a shutdown as a distraction from the drive on Capitol Hill to impeach the president.
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said on Sunday that he was suspicious of the administration.
``I am very disturbed by the ability to work with this White House,'' Lott said.
``It's a matter of trust, and I'm not sure that as majority leader now I can trust their actions.''
Even when the same party controls the White House and Congress, the lawmakers usually leave the difficult negotiations over the spending bills until the end of each session.
But the atmosphere this year is especially charged, with the impeachment process under way just as Congress is trying to wrap up its must-do business.
Further complicating matters is that this is an election year, and members are eager not only to leave Washington to campaign but also to insert their pet projects into the spending bills, although they know that the leaders will decide among themselves what the final package contains.
The president has indicated that he could veto at least five of the remaining bills.
On Monday, in one of his most direct and comprehensive formulations on the appropriations process, he stepped up pressure on the Republicans to drop their notion of a tax cut and to enact his proposals on education, the environment and disaster relief _ the broad legislative themes that could give him some political footing in a showdown with Republicans.
Clinton addressed several issues that Congress will be haggling over in the next few days as House and Senate Republicans try to resolve their own differences.
He asked Congress to approve full financing for the International Monetary Fund, sought money for 100,000 teachers and after-school programs, and said he was alert to what he called ``unacceptable'' anti-environment provisions.
``These are the priorities of the American people,'' the president said of his proposals, ``and they must be the priorities of Congress in these last days before the election.''
Some of the spending bills are being held up because of disputes among Republicans themselves.
For example, conservative House Republicans object to Clinton's request for $14 billion to shore up the reserves of the International Monetary Fund, but many other Republicans, in both houses, want to approve it.
Gephardt framed the impasse this way: ``Can the Republican leadership reign in the right wing, the far right wing of the Republican Party, so we can avoid a shutdown?''
Republicans attribute the snags to the president's request for more than $13 billion in emergency spending that they say would break last year's budget agreement.
The four bills that Congress has finished would finance energy and water projects, military construction, defense and the operations of Congress.
In the next couple of days, both houses are expected to complete action on the agriculture bill, the transportation bill, the bill financing the veterans and housing departments and, possibly, the Treasury and Postal Service bill.
Each house will then roll into one big package, or omnibus bill, at least five spending measures that include elements the president has said he will or may veto.
He has threatened a veto on the Commerce bill because of a dispute over how the census would be conducted; the Labor bill over Republican resistance to his proposals for education programs and fuel assistance for low-income people; the Interior bill over several environmental provisions; the District of Columbia bill over school vouchers and a prohibition on homosexual couples' adopting children, and the foreign operations bill over the International Monetary Fund and overseas family planning.
Republican aides said the real negotiations, between the House and the Senate and then with the White House, would not start until Wednesday or Thursday, or possibly even Friday.
``It will be a massive, days-long conference in a tiny room with no air,'' one top Republican aide said.
But this aide, and others, predicted that Congress would try to adjourn in time for members to get home by Monday to campaign in local Columbus Day parades.
Congress is playing ``chicken'' with the president and the American public.
The federal government is now running on borrowed time.
The federal fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.
There would have been a massive shutdown of federal agencies on Oct. 1, except that Congress voted for a ``continuing resolution'' that supplies emergency funding until Oct. 9.
Every year, the president submits his budget requests to Congress in January and February.
Congress has until mid-September to consider, fashion and pass the necessary appropriations bills.
But this Congress is playing special-interest politics with appropriations bills.
As of Oct. 2, only four of 13 appropriations bills had been passed.
And at least three of the bills yet to be voted into law have been threatened with a presidential veto because of the anti-environmental riders attached to them.
Eventually, Congress must pass all the appropriations bills, but unless the most egregious of the included riders are removed, the public can expect another government shutdown like the one in 1995 _ with the closure of national parks, national monuments, public buildings like the Smithsonian and the Library of Congress and the federal agencies that monitor the federal lands across this nation.
Of course, instead of dealing with the issues, Congress can pass another continuing resolution so that the federal government doesn't shut down on Oct. 10.
More borrowed time.
More political shenanigans.
There were signs Friday that the GOP leadership in Congress realizes it might lose in its collision course with the president and the American people.
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, indicated that he is willing to strip off some of the anti-environmental riders he wrote that impact his state.
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, echoed Stevens, but predicted that next year the GOP presence in Congress would be even stronger and Republicans will get what they want then.
Presumably, the public can expect to see a greater emphasis on raping and scraping the public lands after this election.
But will the GOP leadership swerve enough to avoid a collision in this session?
A number of powerful special-interest groups have forked over huge donations to see their wishes put into law: the fishing industry, oil and gas industry, timber and mining companies and agricultural interests.
Approximately 50 anti-environmental riders remain attached to various appropriations bills.
Then there is the arrogance factor: On July 24, Rep. Bob Livingston, R-La., wrote a letter to Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt threatening to defund Babbitt's office, the office of the Department of the Interior's solicitor, the department's public relations offices and its congressional relations offices.
Livingston, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, didn't like what Babbitt had said to the press about his committee's antics.
Livingston received more than $100,000 in political campaign contributions from oil and gas, construction and agricultural industries in the past two years.
And on the Senate side of the aisle, the Department of Transportation appropriations bill contains a provision that would allow helicopters unrestricted access to national wilderness areas, national parks and national wildlife refuges in Alaska.
Helicopters are now only allowed in Alaska conservation areas for emergency purposes.
On Oct. 1, Babbitt and Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman sent a letter to Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation in the Senate Committee on Appropriations, condemning the helicopter section of the bill and promising a recommendation for a veto.
Babbitt and Glickman wrote, in part: ``This provision would change fundamentally the Alaska experience and undermine wildlife protections and visitor enjoyment in our `last frontier.'
It clearly hurts Alaska, but also sets a dangerous precedent for wilderness, park and refuge lands throughout the country.''
Imagine the ``whopp, whopp, whopp'' of copter blades somewhere just above your head as you try to enjoy the deep and beautiful silence of the great wilderness areas.
In cold, dense air the sound of helicopter blades carries a long way.
The sound of the blades can have a serious impact on wildlife _ disturbing nesting seabird and scattering caribou herds during winter when they need to conserve their energy.
And who would use helicopters overflights or dropoffs?
Extractive industries searching for geological formations that promise oil, gas or coal might be interested in using helicopters; wealthy hunters or hikers who want to be dropped off at key locations; and those intrepid sightseers who want to view the Denali National Park or the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge from the comfort of a seat in a helicopter, then drop down to put their feet on the ground for a moment and finally whopp, whopp away.
And, of course, poachers would find helicopter entry and exit a quick and useful tactic.
Congress isn't satisfied to merely violate the deep silences of the wilderness areas and thereby diminish the experience _ the Omnibus National Parks and Public Lands Act (HR 4570) contains a provision to sell off the people's park lands.
Section 411 of the omnibus bill authorizes the secretary of the Interior to sell, lease, or issue use-permits for parcels of land or structures within the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park.
Section 604 authorizes the sale of wilderness land with the Cumberland Island National Seashore.
The bill also would also allow vehicles to drive through this designated wilderness area.
Last week, GOP leaders in the Senate pulled the Interior appropriations bill off the floor after lengthy debate because they didn't want Sen. 	Max Baucus, D-Mont., to be successful in adding an amendment that would remove a number of anti-environmental riders.
Now there is talk in the Senate of rolling the Interior bill in with several other appropriations measures to create a gigantic funding bill that President Clinton could not veto without serious repercussions.
And the political games continue.
&QL;  NYT-10-05-98 1735EDT &QL;
Congress is playing ``chicken'' with the president and the American public.
The federal government is now running on borrowed time.
The federal fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.
There would have been a massive shutdown of federal agencies on Oct. 1, except that Congress voted for a ``continuing resolution'' that supplies emergency funding until Oct. 9.
Every year, the president submits his budget requests to Congress in January and February.
Congress has until mid-September to consider, fashion and pass the necessary appropriations bills.
But this Congress is playing special-interest politics with appropriations bills.
As of Oct. 2, only four of 13 appropriations bills had been passed.
And at least three of the bills yet to be voted into law have been threatened with a presidential veto because of the anti-environmental riders attached to them.
Eventually, Congress must pass all the appropriations bills, but unless the most egregious of the included riders are removed, the public can expect another government shutdown like the one in 1995 _ with the closure of national parks, national monuments, public buildings like the Smithsonian and the Library of Congress and the federal agencies that monitor the federal lands across this nation.
Of course, instead of dealing with the issues, Congress can pass another continuing resolution so that the federal government doesn't shut down on Oct. 10.
More borrowed time.
More political shenanigans.
There were signs Friday that the GOP leadership in Congress realizes it might lose in its collision course with the president and the American people.
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, indicated that he is willing to strip off some of the anti-environmental riders he wrote that impact his state.
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, echoed Stevens, but predicted that next year the GOP presence in Congress would be even stronger and Republicans will get what they want then.
Presumably, the public can expect to see a greater emphasis on raping and scraping the public lands after this election.
But will the GOP leadership swerve enough to avoid a collision in this session?
A number of powerful special-interest groups have forked over huge donations to see their wishes put into law: the fishing industry, oil and gas industry, timber and mining companies and agricultural interests.
Approximately 50 anti-environmental riders remain attached to various appropriations bills.
Then there is the arrogance factor: On July 24, Rep. Bob Livingston, R-La., wrote a letter to Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt threatening to defund Babbitt's office, the office of the Department of the Interior's solicitor, the department's public relations offices and its congressional relations offices.
Livingston, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, didn't like what Babbitt had said to the press about his committee's antics.
Livingston received more than $100,000 in political campaign contributions from oil and gas, construction and agricultural industries in the past two years.
And on the Senate side of the aisle, the Department of Transportation appropriations bill contains a provision that would allow helicopters unrestricted access to national wilderness areas, national parks and national wildlife refuges in Alaska.
Helicopters are now only allowed in Alaska conservation areas for emergency purposes.
On Oct. 1, Babbitt and Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman sent a letter to Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation in the Senate Committee on Appropriations, condemning the helicopter section of the bill and promising a recommendation for a veto.
Babbitt and Glickman wrote, in part: ``This provision would change fundamentally the Alaska experience and undermine wildlife protections and visitor enjoyment in our `last frontier.'
It clearly hurts Alaska, but also sets a dangerous precedent for wilderness, park and refuge lands throughout the country.''
Imagine the ``whopp, whopp, whopp'' of copter blades somewhere just above your head as you try to enjoy the deep and beautiful silence of the great wilderness areas.
In cold, dense air the sound of helicopter blades carries a long way.
The sound of the blades can have a serious impact on wildlife _ disturbing nesting seabird and scattering caribou herds during winter when they need to conserve their energy.
And who would use helicopters overflights or dropoffs?
Extractive industries searching for geological formations that promise oil, gas or coal might be interested in using helicopters; wealthy hunters or hikers who want to be dropped off at key locations; and those intrepid sightseers who want to view the Denali National Park or the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge from the comfort of a seat in a helicopter, then drop down to put their feet on the ground for a moment and finally whopp, whopp away.
And, of course, poachers would find helicopter entry and exit a quick and useful tactic.
Congress isn't satisfied to merely violate the deep silences of the wilderness areas and thereby diminish the experience _ the Omnibus National Parks and Public Lands Act (HR 4570) contains a provision to sell off the people's park lands.
Section 411 of the omnibus bill authorizes the secretary of the Interior to sell, lease, or issue use-permits for parcels of land or structures within the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park.
Section 604 authorizes the sale of wilderness land with the Cumberland Island National Seashore.
The bill also would also allow vehicles to drive through this designated wilderness area.
Last week, GOP leaders in the Senate pulled the Interior appropriations bill off the floor after lengthy debate because they didn't want Sen. 	Max Baucus, D-Mont., to be successful in adding an amendment that would remove a number of anti-environmental riders.
Now there is talk in the Senate of rolling the Interior bill in with several other appropriations measures to create a gigantic funding bill that President Clinton could not veto without serious repercussions.
And the political games continue.
With four days until temporary financing for the government runs out, House Republican leaders Tuesday demonstrated a new willingness to resolve several of the spending issues that had pointed toward a government shutdown.
Republicans want to keep the spotlight on the impeachment investigation of President Clinton and are therefore eager to brush away any matters that might interfere.
They indicated Tuesday that they intended to drop their hard-line positions on matters ranging from less money for the International Monetary Fund to a weakened Federal Election Commission to a denial of political amnesty for 40,000 Haitians.
Many of these signals distressed House conservatives, who said their leaders were sacrificing their principles to milk all political advantage from the spectacle of impeaching the president.
But they ceded to their leaders' belief that if they could keep the focus on impeachment, Republicans would win substantial majorities in the November elections and then be able to push through their conservative agenda next year with greater ease.
House Majority Leader Dick Armey led the way Tuesday saying he was dropping his insistence on school vouchers in the District of Columbia.
``I walked away, for now, from my school-choice bill,'' he told reporters.
``One of the reasons we are so comfortable with this is that we know we will be back next year with an even larger majority in both the House and Senate, and those things that perhaps we don't get done this year, we can get done next year.''
Rep. Robert Livingston, R-La., said his provision to weaken the Federal Election Commission ``could be dropped.''
At the same time, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said he ``could support a compromise'' on amnesty for the Haitians, which he had adamantly opposed.
The conciliatory moves came as Republican leaders prepared to meet Wednesday with Clinton's chief of staff, Erskine Bowles, in the first high-level negotiating session on the spending bills, which must be passed by midnight Friday to keep the government running and performing functions like issuing Social Security checks and keeping the national parks open.
``There is movement,'' said Livingston, the chairman of the appropriations committee.
``Tomorrow is a critical day.''
With Senate passage Tuesday of the agriculture bill, Congress has completed work on 5 of the 13 spending measures, with perhaps two or three more in sight before Friday, when the stopgap bill expires.
Another stopgap measure would be necessary if lawmakers went beyond the midnight deadline.
Armey said he expected Congress to negotiate into the wee hours Friday and into Saturday but to pass the spending bills in time for Congress to depart Sunday.
nn 	The conservatives are most concerned about breaking the spending caps set in last year's balanced-budget agreement.
They say that Clinton's request for more than $13 billion in emergency spending, for matters like the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and fixing the year 2000 computer bug, are not true unforeseen emergencies and should have been included in the president's budget request.
They want both Congress and the president to make cuts elsewhere in the budget to make up for these nonemergencies.
Conservatives are also convinced that spending $18 billion on the International Monetary Fund is a waste of money, but Democrats are adamant that the money be provided.
``We aren't going to leave here without it,'' said Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin, the top Democrat on the appropriations committee.
House and Senate leaders said they expected five spending bills to be especially difficult to negotiate and that they would probably be wrapped into one big omnibus package at the end of the week and sent to the White House.
The bills most likely to end up in that package, all of which have drawn veto threats from the administration, have not yet been agreed upon by House and Senate negotiators.
Those bills would finance the following departments and areas: 	_ Commerce, State and Justice Departments.
This bill includes the census, perhaps the most contentious issue between the parties.
_ Foreign Operations.
This bill contains financing for the International Monetary Fund and would restrict United States aid for overseas family planning groups advocating abortion.
_ Treasury Department and U.S. Postal Service.
The four contentious provisions attached to this bill would block amnesty for the 40,000 Haitians, require federal health plans to pay for contraceptives for women who are federal employees, impose federal standards for day care on state and local governments, and weaken the Federal Election Commission by limiting the term of the general counsel and staff director to four years, unless four of six commissioners approved a re-appointment.
Democrats said that measure was aimed at removing the current general counsel.
Republicans, deeply divided over these issues, prevented the House from debating this bill last week, and a conference Tuesday failed to resolve anything, although various Republicans said later that they could compromise on some provisions.
Rep. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., said the bill would have the best chance of passing if it were stripped of everything except the measure for contraceptives.
_ Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education departments.
This bill contains millions of dollars sought by the administration for education programs, including 100,000 teachers and expanded after-school and summer-school programs.
It would also pay for fuel assistance for low-income families and job-training programs.
_ Interior Department.
Republicans have attached provisions that the president deems to be anti-environment.
The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, Oct. 7: 	In an atmosphere already bitter over impeachment proceedings, President Clinton and Republican congressional leaders are heading toward another nasty confrontation on the budget that threatens to shut down the government.
In this dispute, however, the White House has a strong hand.
Despite his political problems, Clinton is right to insist on legislation free of objectionable attachments to keep government operations going past Friday.
The most offensive riders under consideration would damage natural resources, cut programs for schools and the poor and impose mischievous new curbs on abortion and contraception.
The reason for the latest battle is that Republicans in Congress have been mired in their own budget disputes all year, with hard-line conservatives favoring domestic spending cuts, moderates loath to provoke a veto by Clinton and their leaders reluctant to hand him a fight that draws attention from his sex scandal.
In a sign of Clinton's continued leverage, the Republicans caved in Tuesday on the ill-advised $80 billion tax cut approved last month in the House, which was to have been paid for out of this year's budget surplus.
The question now is whether they will come to their senses on other destructive measures.
At a time of grave financial crisis around the world, for instance, it would be foolish to reject full funding for the International Monetary Fund, which the Senate has already approved.
House Republicans should also back down on cuts in education programs, fuel assistance for low-income people and gratuitous gestures like the attempts to weaken the Federal Election Commission or limit contraceptive coverage in federal employee health benefits.
As they have done in the past, Western Republicans in the Senate have added more than 20 last-minute riders to the Interior Department spending bill that would weaken protections for fisheries, wilderness areas and national forests.
House Republicans have badly shortchanged the Everglades restoration program.
Can lawmakers be so out of touch that they would try to capitalize on the president's political difficulties for a backdoor attack on the environment?
One of the more absurd contentions by Republicans is that they need to cut programs to make funds available for such emergencies as assistance to farmers, the troops in Bosnia and the crash program to update the government's computers for the year 2000.
But Congress has long recognized that emergencies may be met without cuts in spending elsewhere.
In the spending and environmental areas, at least, Clinton has set out the right priorities.
He should stick to them even if it means vetoing unacceptable legislation and provoking a fight that lawmakers do not want.
With three days until temporary financing of the government expires, Republican leaders met Wednesday night with White House officials in their first high-level attempt to resolve dozens of spending issues and avoid a government shutdown.
The unresolved issues include financing for the International Monetary Fund, how to conduct the 2000 census, and billions of dollars in extra spending for items that the administration deems emergencies, like the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, the year 2000 computer bug, and disaster relief for farmers.
Speaker Newt Gingrich, Sen. Trent Lott and Rep. Dick Armey, the majority leader, were hashing out the details behind closed doors in the speaker's office with Erskine Bowles, President Clinton's chief of staff, John Podesta, the deputy chief of staff, and Lawrence Stein, the administration's liaison with Congress.
During a dinner break, Bowles expressed some confidence that both sides could reach agreement but said they would be working all night.
``I think we made some reasonable progress, in general,'' he said, adding, ``I think we've got a chance.''
But he said that no specific issues had been resolved and suggested none would be until both sides could define the entire scope of what they wanted.
``Nothing is resolved until everything is resolved,'' he said.
At the same time, the Republican leaders were trying to smooth over differences in their own ranks to speed the process along.
Over the squawking of both moderates and conservatives, House leaders stripped out four controversial provisions from the nettlesome bill that finances the Treasury Department and the Postal Service.
The provisions sought to weaken the Federal Election Commission, required the government, to provide health insurance coverage for contraceptives for female federal workers, to block amnesty for 40,000 Haitians living in the United States and to set federal standards for child care.
Last week, so many House members were so upset with these provisions that they blocked the bill from being debated on the House floor by a vote of 294-106.
But Wednesday night, in a vote of 231-194 along almost strictly party lines, they approved the procedures and paved the way toward passage on the floor.
Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., who had shepherded the contraceptive measure through the House, was upset that Republican leaders simply tossed it out in the final bill even though it had passed the full House twice before and a similar measure had cleared the Senate unanimously by voice vote.
``The Republican leaders should be ashamed of themselves,'' she said.
``They have stomped all over democracy today in their rush to kow-tow to their right wing.''
This is a familiar theme among Democrats _ that the Republican leaders are beholden to their conservative rank and file.
But this is increasingly not the case.
As the legislative session hurtles toward its conclusion, almost nothing from the conservative agenda has advanced beyond symbolic votes on the House floor.
Leaders have quite pointedly not held up the spending bills to advance these causes, spurning conservatives equally with moderates in the interests of reaching agreements and avoiding a government shutdown so that they can keep the spotlight on impeachment proceedings for Clinton.
On the Senate side, Republicans were preparing for final passage of the bill financing Veterans Affairs and the Housing and Urban Affairs Department.
That would bring the number of spending bills Congress has completed action on to six, with seven remaining.
Most of those are expected to be wrapped into one big omnibus package, perhaps by Saturday, although the negotiations with the White House Wednesday evening could change everything.
Republican congressional leaders presented the Clinton administration Thursday with a list of lending conditions that they want imposed on the International Monetary Fund in order for Congress to approve $18 billion in new money for the IMF.
Administration and congressional officials said they were hopeful that they could soon agree on compromise legislation to provide the money to the IMF to refill reserve accounts depleted by the fund's attempts to bail out the economies of Russia and three Asian nations.
But they said they were still without a timetable for an agreement.
Citing the turmoil in international financial markets, the White House has insisted that the legislation be approved and sent to the president before Congress adjourns for the year, which could happen this weekend.
While the list of conditions being sought by the Republicans was not made public, congressional officials said it included a demand that the IMF open its books for public scrutiny, that it end the practice of lending to foreign governments at below-market interest rates, and that it shorten the lending period on most loans.
The list was presented to Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin during a meeting Thursday on Capitol Hill with the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, R-Miss., and House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia.
After the meeting, Rubin told reporters that it had gone well.
``It was a good meeting,'' he said.
``It was very constructive and we're just going to keep working forward.''
Administration officials say the White House is reluctant to accept any legislation that imposes onerous lending conditions on the IMF, especially at a time when the fund needs flexibility to avert a global financial meltdown.
The Senate has already approved the full $18 billion in new fund financing requested by the Clinton administration.
But the House has balked at the request and has so far approved only $3.4 billion.
The talks this week are aimed at satisfying House Republican leaders, who are being pressed by conservatives within their party who have questioned whether the economic crisis that has swept the third world is evidence that the monetary fund has outlived its usefulness.
``I have been as critical about the IMF as many, but given the crisis we have around the world, the U.S. needs to provide leadership,'' said Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, a key Republican in the talks.
He said that given the chaos in international financial markets, the United States was left with no option but to provide the money to the fund.
``The only real avenue is the IMF,'' he said.
Congressional officials say the House leadership has shown a new willingness to resolve the monetary fund issue _ and to end a variety of other financing disputes with the White House _ in hopes of preventing a government shutdown that might distract public attention away from the impeachment investigation of President Clinton.
Moreover, if the United States fails to provide the money other nations might reduce their contributions, leaving the fund short of the $90 billion it says is needed to deal with the current world financial crisis.
Budget negotiations faltered Friday, prompting Congress to delay until midnight Monday its deadline for passing a spending bill to keep the government open.
Republican leaders vowed they would not let the government shut down.
At the same time, many rank-and-file members of Congress, suffering from impeachment fatigue and anxious to get home to campaign for the Nov. 3 elections, fled Capitol Hill temporarily Friday night in an acknowledgment that any resolution was in the hands of Republican leaders and the White House.
They are subject to return at the call of their leaders to vote on a final package, probably not before Monday.
Meanwhile the chairmen of the spending committees and Republican leaders engaged in on-and-off negotiations with the White House.
The two sides met twice Friday and were working Friday night, but little overt progress was made on the spending bills as the process devolved into a political blame game, with each side trying to control the message that goes out to voters.
President Clinton said that Republicans were not providing enough money for his education initiatives, including measures to hire teachers and repair schools.
``This budget is purely and simply a test of whether after nine months of doing nothing, we are going to do the right thing about our children's future,'' the president said.
Rep. Robert Livingston, R-La., chairman of the Appropriations Committee, responded that he was astounded to see the president on television complaining about Republicans when the White House had failed to propose cuts in domestic spending to make up for the billions of dollars that the president was seeking for his own proposals.
Republicans were keenly aware that the president had successfully blamed them for previous government shutdowns, in 1995 and 1996, and were determined Friday not to let that happen again.
As the negotiations stalled, Livingston asserted, ``There's not going to be a shutdown.''
The Republicans were responding not only to the president but to a prevailing sense on Capitol Hill that their leaders were giving in to the administration's demands behind the scenes in order to make a quick break from Washington and leave with the political focus on the impending impeachment inquiry.
Democrats appeared more eager to draw out the endgame and were advancing the view that Republicans, in their haste to capitalize on the president's woes in their re-election campaigns, were being careless about the budget.
``They're cutting out on everything because they want to get out of here,'' said Rep. Bill Delahunt, D-Mass.
``The impeachment stuff has been draining on the whole institution.
It's been sucking all the air out.''
Rep. Jennifer Dunn, R-Wash., emerged from a closed-door meeting of her colleagues saying she was ``disappointed that the president has put us on the defense.''
But really, said Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, a member of the Republican leadership, Republicans ``want to stay here and work, work, work.''
A top Republican aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity put the message in plain English: ``We're not going to give them the ability to say it's our fault.''
But that is precisely the message that Clinton and Democratic leaders tried to convey, portraying the Republicans as blocking bills concerning health care, campaign finance and the minimum wage, even though these measures are not directly related to the 13 must-pass spending bills that keep the government going.
Only two of those bills have been signed into law.
Four others have been sent to the president, and he has vetoed one.
The current negotiations are over several contentious items in the remaining seven bills, which are likely to be wrapped up into one big omnibus bill and presented to the president next week.
The Senate added to that bloated omnibus Friday by killing the bill financing the Treasury Department and U.S. Postal Service.
Friday's deadline extension is the second that Congress has sought in two weeks.
The first took Congress through Friday night, even though the new fiscal year began Oct. 1.
In other action Friday, the House approved, 300-125, legislation overhauling the bankruptcy code, but the legislation still faced the threat of a veto from the White House and opposition from Senate Democrats who said it failed to rein in abusive credit card lending and marketing practices.
Friday night, however, Democrats withdrew a filibuster threat that would have killed the bill.
Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill.
said the Democrats had relented after Sen. Trent Lott, the majority leader, told them he would not pass the freestanding bill but instead try to include it in the omnibus spending measure needed to end the congressional session.
With the Republican plan for a big tax cut having died without coming to a vote in the Senate, Congress scrambled Friday to put together a far smaller tax package that could win bipartisan support.
After giving up hope that the Senate would act on an $80 billion, five-year Republican tax cut plan passed last month by the House, the House Ways and Means Committee on Friday hurriedly considered and then passed, on a unanimous voice vote, a narrow bill to address some of the tax issues that both parties consider most pressing.
The package would extend a series of expiring tax credits, accelerate an existing plan to allow self-employed people to deduct 100 percent of their health-insurance premiums and provide a break to farmers who are hard hit by a downturn in agricultural prices.
Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas, the committee's chairman, said he hoped that the bill would sail through the House, be adopted by the Senate and be signed into law by President Clinton.
The committee's plan, which could be voted on by the full House as soon as Saturday, would cost $5.1 billion over five years and $9.2 billion over 10 years.
Unlike the original House plan, which called for the $80 billion tax cut to be paid for out of projected budget surpluses, the package approved Friday would be paid for by raising other taxes.
But Archer's plan quickly hit a roadblock when the Senate Finance Committee decided to draft its own legislation, which differs in several small but important respects from the House version.
With Congress racing to deal with a long list of issues before adjourning next week for the midterm elections, the measure's fate in the Senate remained uncertain.
The end-of-session wrangling over small-bore and largely technical tax issues was a long way from what Republicans had hoped for throughout much of the year.
Emboldened by projections that the federal budget surplus would rise substantially in the coming years, they debated cutting taxes by hundreds of billions of dollars before scaling back their aspirations in the face of strong opposition from the president, congressional Democrats and some moderates within their own party.
Even the $80 billion five-year plan passed by the House, though, ran afoul of Clinton's demand that Congress set aside any budget surpluses until the nation settles on a plan to deal with the Social Security system's looming financial problems.
Senate Republicans, in particular, feared that supporting any tax cut that relied on the budget surplus would lead Democrats to accuse them of endangering Social Security.
Senate Republicans never formally declared the $80 billion package dead, with Majority Leader Trent Lott hinting all week that he might still schedule a vote.
But most Republicans have acknowledged for some time that the bill would never pass the Senate, largely because the parliamentary rules under which the legislation would be considered would require 60 votes for it to succeed.
Republicans hold 55 seats in the Senate.
The measure passed by the Ways and Means Committee would extend, to the end of next year, a research and development tax credit strongly favored by business executives.
The Senate Finance Committee's version would extend the credit only until the middle of next year, but would also extend a number of other credits not addressed by the House bill.
Both the House and Senate versions would pay for the tax reductions they include largely by closing a loophole used by real estate investment trusts.
The Clinton administration has begun to consult foreign governments about changes that will be demanded of the International Monetary Fund under a deal with Congress to provide the fund with $18 billion, administration and congressional officials said Sunday.
The administration requested the infusion of capital to deal with the global economic crisis.
Officials said compromise legislation now being hammered out by the White House and Republican congressional leaders would provide full financing for the fund, but would also demand greater openness in its decision-making and new restrictions on its loans.
The fund has traditionally made its decisions about loans to foreign governments in secret.
The White House has portrayed the $18 billion as vital to the IMF as it seeks to avert an international financial meltdown.
After a weekend of negotiations, White House officials and members of Congress said they were optimistic about a deal as part of a larger budget agreement that is meant to prevent a shutdown of the federal government.
``There has been constructive bipartisan discussion,'' said Gene Sperling, President Clinton's national economic adviser.
``All parties are increasingly confident that both full funding and substantial reforms will be part of the final agreement.''
Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., who is involved in the negotiations, said he believed a deal would be announced soon.
``You can see a solution to that on the horizon,'' he said, describing the talks on the fund as the ``one area'' in the budget talks ``where we're moving much closer to agreement.''
The details of the compromise have not been made public, and administration and congressional officials said at least a handful of issues remained unresolved, specifically about the type of lending conditions that the United States can try to impose.
House Republicans, who had blocked all but $3.4 billion of the $18 billion request, have been seeking a variety of changes in how the fund is run, including an end to loans at below-market interest rates and a requirement that loans be repaid within a year.
Republican leaders say new lending conditions would provide more incentive to foreign governments to pursue sound economic policies.
The administration has warned that some of the demands made by congressional Republicans would be impossible to force on the IMF, which has 182 members.
Administration and congressional officials said the administration had begun to consult with other nations that are key donors to head off the possibility that the IMF might balk at new lending conditions.
The $18 billion from the United States would replenish accounts depleted by the fund's efforts to bail out the economies of Russia and three Asian nations.
Other important donor nations are waiting for Washington to act before chipping in their shares.
Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, the House Republican majority leader, said on the ABC News program ``This Week'' that the talks between the White House and Congress were still a ``very rigorous business.''
He did not predict when the deal might be reached.
``We're working out the details now,'' he said.
``We're working hard on the language and we'll just have to see.''
Armey led efforts in the House earlier this year to block full financing for the IMF, and on Sunday he repeated the criticism often heard on Capitol Hill, from both Republicans and Democrats, that the fund had mishandled the financial crisis that has swept across much of the world in recent months.
``There seems to be now a growing consensus of understanding, even given lip service by the president himself, that the IMF has very likely done more harm in places like Thailand and Russia than they've done good,'' he said.
``Everybody understands the IMF can have American tax dollars if the IMF is responsible and productive in the world economy,'' Armey said.
``But we will not continue to give them money to do the kind of harm they've done.
If you've got a fire, you don't subsidize the arsonist.''
The Justice department invoked the Sherman Antitrust Act, and brought civil suit against Microsoft, the world's largest software producer.
Twenty states also charged Microsoft.
The trial began 23 October 1998.
The government charged that Microsoft sought Netscape Corporation's collusion in restricting competition in the Internet software market.
When Netscape refused, Microsoft attempted to thwart competition by bundling its browser with the highly popular Windows operating system.
Microsoft denied all charges.
The case is important.
Microsoft's loss could lead to increased watchdog scrutiny in the high-tech world.
Microsoft's attempt to acquire 3Com's Palm Pilot indicated that their aggressive business practices would continue.
Invoking the Sherman Act, the Justice Department and 20 states have begun  anti-trust proceedings against Microsoft Corporation.
Key to the government's  case is the allegation, supported by Netscape, that Microsoft suggested in a  June 1995 meeting that Netscape join Microsoft in dividing the internet software  market.
In a taped deposition, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates denied any knowledge  of such an offer.
Microsoft lawyers later produced an e-mail from Netscape President  James Barkdale which suggests Netscape was a willing participant in the internet  software discussion.
Despite the on-going suit, Microsoft made an unsuccessful bid to  acquire the software business behind the Palm Pilot.
The government's antitrust case against Bill Gates' Microsoft Corporation cited aggressive tactics in attempting to acquire Palm Pilot.
The governments' first salvo was to attack Gates' contention that he was not involved by showing documents portraying his company obsessed with crushing its competitor.
Leading prosecution witness, Netscape CEO James Barksdale, cited blatant threats by Microsoft, which Microsoft characterized as acceptable business practices.
They also claimed that Netscape initiated some of the contacts.
Despite being the target of the government's case, Microsoft earnings continued to grow.
In its defense, Microsoft said that the "New Economy" was also on trial and that new antitrust definitions were needed.
The Justice Department and 20 states are conducting an anti-trust trial against  Microsoft Corp. with evidence that the company is increasingly attempting to crush  competitors.
Microsoft is accused of trying to forcefully buy into markets where its  own products are not competitive enough to unseat established brands.
The government's  case revolves around evidence of Microsoft aggressively pressuring Netscape  Communications Corp. into merging browser software.
Microsoft claims its tactics are  commonplace and good economically.
The government may file a civil suit ruling that  conspiracy to curb competition though collusion is a violation of the Sherman Act.
Microsoft continues to show increased earnings despite the trial.
In a recent move that indicated he has no intention of backing away from his company's aggressive business tactics, Microsoft Corp.'s chairman, Bill Gates, has proposed acquiring the software business behind 3Com Corp.'s popular Palm Pilot hand-held computer, according to people who have been briefed on the discussions.
The offer, made in an August meeting with 3Com's chairman, Eric Benhamou, was not accepted by 3Com executives, those people say.
But certainly, Gates is said to have dangled an alluring kingmaker's deal: If 3Com were willing to sell off its software business, a market favorite compared with Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, Gates would make the company's remaining Palm Computing hardware business, ``the Compaq Computer of the hand-held market.''
Officials of both companies declined to confirm or deny word of the meeting at Microsoft's Redmond, Wash., headquarters, at which the two executives discussed a variety of strategic possibilities between the two companies, according to several people privy to the discussions.
Though the proposal was unsuccessful, the approach provides graphic insight into Microsoft's business tactics.
As in its abortive 1995 deal to acquire the financial software maker Intuit, which was rejected not by Intuit but by the Justice Department, Microsoft is increasingly looking to buy its way into markets where its own products are not competitive enough to unseat established brands.
And the Palm Pilot offer would appear to indicate that Microsoft has not scaled back its ambitions in the face of the Justice Department's antitrust suit.
The antitrust suit, initiated last October, originally focused on Microsoft's linking of its Internet Explorer World Wide Web browser with the industry-dominant Windows 95 operating system.
But more recently, the Justice Department has begun to examine a wide range of the company's business practices.
Negotiations to control development and production of the software that powers the most popular hand-held computer, the Palm Pilot, are significant, analysts said, because hand-held devices, from note-taking aids to cellular telephones, are one part of the market where Microsoft does not appear to be quickly gaining ground.
The market is seen as growing more quickly than the computer industry over all.
``Maybe Bill Gates was trying to get rid of a competitor,'' said Andrew Seybold, a computer and communications analyst and publisher of his own newsletter, based in Boulder Creek, Calif. ``I don't think the Windows CE products have slowed them down at all.''
While Microsoft officials did not directly dispute word of the overture to 3Com, they rebutted suggestions that they had lost confidence in the Windows CE software.
``Any statement suggesting that Microsoft would license or buy the Palm software in lieu of Windows CE is flatly false,'' said Greg Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman.
``3Com is a great partner and we have frequent discussions with them,'' he added.
``But it would be inappropriate to comment on those discussions.''
A spokeswoman for 3Com simply said the company would not comment on any of the discussions the company had held with Microsoft.
Though the two companies have had a broad set of partnerships in other areas of computing, they have been bitter enemies in the market for hand-held computers.
Earlier this year, 3Com filed suit in Germany after Microsoft introduced a clone of the Palm Pilot, which it called the Palm PC.
Microsoft backed down, renaming its hand-held unit the Palm-sized PC.
The Palm Computing business of 3Com has shipped more than 1.5 million copies of its hand-held device, making it the dominant player in the market for so-called personal digital assistants after earlier efforts like Apple Computer Inc.'s Newton failed to gain broad acceptance.
By comparison, only about 750,000 Windows CE-based hand-held systems have been shipped, according to Rob Enderle, an analyst at Giga Information Group in Santa Clara, Calif.
After months of noisy prelude, the antitrust trial against the Microsoft Corp. opened in federal court Monday morning with a pointed personal attack on Bill Gates, the company's chairman, who testified in a taped deposition that he knew little if anything about the key charges leveled against his company by the Justice Department and 20 states.
``My only knowledge is the Wall Street Journal article; it surprised me'' Gates said of reports of a meeting in which his company had offered its chief competitor in Internet software a chance to divide the market.
Gazing directly at his questioner, brow furrowed, head tilted slightly to the left, he added, ``I was not involved'' in discussions of the key meetings.
But as the Justice Department proceeded with its opening argument over the next two hours, its lead lawyer in the case, David Boies, presented more than a dozen memos and e-mail messages written by Gates over the last three years, showing clearly that he and other senior Microsoft executives not only knew about the matters in question but had forcefully directed them.
Using memos and documents, the government portrayed a company obsessed with crushing its competitor, the Netscape Communications Corp., and willing to use every tool at its disposal, including threats and financial inducements, to force or persuade other companies to drop any planned or existing alliances with Netscape.
Gates told his questioner at another point in the deposition that he had not even read the government's antitrust suit.
As to its central charge, illegal collusion to divide software markets, Gates said only: ``I think somebody said that was in there.''
Gates also said that in 1995, ``somebody came to me to ask if it made sense investing in Netscape.''
Shaking his head dismissively, Gates recalled, ``I said it didn't make any sense to me.''
Moments later, Boies displayed on a 10-foot video screen and enlargement of a memo in which Gates wrote to Paul Meritz, a senior Microsoft executive, that over time Microsoft might have to compete with Netscape.
``But in the meantime we can help them,'' Gates wrote.
``We can pay them some money.''
At the heart of this competition _ and central to the case _ are browsing programs used to navigate the Internet's World Wide Web.
Netscape got an early lead in the market with its Navigator browser.
What frightened Microsoft was that Navigator could also be used as a ``platform,'' a layer of software on which other programs can run.
This is the main function of an operating system, a market in which Microsoft has a monopoly with its Windows family of operating systems.
Leaving the federal courthouse Monday afternoon, William H. Neukom, Microsoft's senior vice president of law and government affairs, said that the government's opening presentation was ``based entirely on loose and unreliable rhetoric and snippets that were not in any reliable context.''
Microsoft will offer its own opening remarks on Tuesday.
``These are the same tired old allegations,'' Neukomb said.
``None of these snippets, none of this rhetoric even approaches proof of anti-competitive conduct.''
Earlier, however, Boies had told the judge, ``It's competition on the merits that the antitrust laws foster.
But this is not a situation of competition on the merits.
This is a situation, I respectfully submit, your honor, of clear restraint of trade.''
In one 1995 e-mail message relating to Microsoft's effort to push Netscape out of the market for browsers that run on Windows computers, Gates wrote other Microsoft executives: ``I think there is a very powerful deal we can make with Netscape.
I would really like to see something like this happen!!''
Other memos showed that Gates was continually and personally involved.
In an attempt to demonstrate a pattern of anticompetitive behavior, Boies led Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson of U.S. District Court through a chronology of memos and messages that seemed to show Microsoft threatening and cajoling other companies.
After a meeting with Gates in 1996, an executive with America Online, the nation's largest on-line service, wrote to other executives in his company: ``Gates delivered a characteristically blunt query: `How much do we need to pay you to screw Netscape?
This is your lucky day.'''
In the summer of 1995, one memo showed, Gates wrote to Andrew Grove, chairman of the Intel Corp., and bluntly asked why the company was doing software research that might conflict with Micrsoft's plans.
``I don't understand why Intel funds a program that is against Windows,'' the message said.
An Intel note a few weeks later said, ``Gates made vague threats about supporting'' Intel's competitors, unless Intel agreed to shut down its software research.
Intel eventually relented, but while this standoff was underway, a Microsoft memo said, the nation's computer-manufacturing industry was paralyzed while awaiting word on whether Microsoft deemed it acceptable to use certain features of a new computer chip Intel was selling.
Gates wrote: ``This is good news.
It means they are listening to us.''
In another case, the memos indicated that Microsoft threatened to stop selling the Apple Computer Co. a version of Microsoft's Office software suite, which holds more than 90 percent of that market _ unless Apple stopped supporting Netscape.
A central argument in the government's suit is that Microsoft has bundled its Web browser with Windows as a tactic in its war with Netscape.
For the last year, at least, Microsoft has argued that the browser was added to Windows only for the benefit of customers.
In court Monday, however, the Justice Department displayed numerous internal memos indicating that the bundling was indeed a tactical decision.
The memos showed that Microsoft's leaders first wanted to sell Interent Explorer and expected to earn $120 million a year from the sales.
Then, when the plan to push Netscape out of competition with Microsoft failed, the company's leaders decided to bundle the browser with Windows instead as a means of helping it gain a majority share of the market.
In one memo, written in December 1995 _ in the thick of Microsoft's effort to push Netscape out of the market _ Gates wrote a memo to others in the company acknowledging that Netscape was designing browser software ``far better than we are.''
In an interview a few months later, displayed in court Monday, Gates said: ``Our business model works even if the Internet Explorer software is free.
We are still selling operating systems.
What's Netscape's business model look like in that case?
Not very good.''
The government also proffered several memos from computer manufacturers complaining bitterly about Microsoft's licensing restriction that prohibited them from offering Netscape if they wanted to offer Windows.
``We're very disappointed,'' Hewlett Packard wrote to Microsoft last year.
``This will cause significant, costly problems.
From a consumer perspective, it is hurting our industry.
``If we had another choice of another supplier, based on your actions here, we would take it.''
The government's case against Microsoft is a narrative that revolves around Netscape Communications Corp. and the government's leading witness, James Barksdale, Netscape's 55-year-old president and chief executive.
In his 127 pages of written testimony, released Monday afternoon, Barksdale supplied new details and a firsthand perspective of a disputed meeting between Microsoft and Netscape on June 21, 1995, at Netscape's offices in Mountain View, Calif.
At the meeting, the government contends, Microsoft executives proposed that the two companies divvy up the emerging market for software used to browse the Internet's World Wide Web.
Microsoft replies that the prosecutors are misinterpreting a routine business meeting.
A longtime executive who has worked for IBM, Federal Express and AT&AMP;T, Barksdale described the June 1995 meeting as anything but routine.
``I have never been in a meeting in my 35-year business career in which a competitor had so blatantly implied that we would either stop competing with it or the competitor would kill us,'' Barksdale stated.
``In all my years in business, I have never heard nor experienced such an explicit proposal to divide markets.''
If the court accepts Barksdale's version of the meeting, it will represent a big victory for the Justice Department and the 20 states suing Microsoft.
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson could rule that the meeting itself _ as a conspiracy to try to curb competition through collusion _ is an antitrust violation.
And the government's broader case begins with that meeting.
After Netscape spurned the offer, the government contends, Microsoft embarked on a strategy intended to thwart competition in the Internet software market by crushing Netscape, bundling its browser into its Windows operating system and making restrictive deals with personal-computer makers, online services and other companies.
Those tactics, the government says, represented an unfair use of the market power Microsoft has as a result of its monopoly in operating-system software for personal computers.
Microsoft, the government adds, used that power to protect its monopoly position and to extend its reach into the fast-growing new markets for Internet software and electronic commerce.
The government focused on the June 1995 meeting in its antitrust suit, filed in May, and since then additional information about the meeting has been reported.
But in his lengthy statement, Barksdale provides, for the first time, a precise account of what he says occurred at the meeting.
He quotes what Microsoft executives said and refers to notes taken by another Netscape executive who attended the meeting, Marc Andreessen.
The two companies had held talks for months about cooperating.
By the June meeting, Barksdale said, the cooperation Netscape most sought was technical information from Microsoft that would enable Netscape's Navigator browser to run smoothly on top of Microsoft's industry-standard Windows operating system.
At the meeting, Barksdale said, the Microsoft team, led by Dan Rosen, proposed that Netscape not market a browser for the Windows 95 operating system, which was shipped two months later.
As part of the proposal, Microsoft would also invest in Netscape and take a seat on the Netscape board.
Barksdale asked if Netscape's ability to obtain technical information from Microsoft was conditioned on Netscape's accepting the proposal.
Barksdale quotes Rosen as saying, ``It certainly isn't independent.''
Any technical information Netscape was seeking could be obtained, Barksdale quotes a Microsoft executive as saying, ``depending on how we walk out of this room today.''
If Netscape rejected Microsoft's deal, Barksdale testified, the Microsoft team told Netscape that it could expect the technical information to be delayed for three months _ meaning that the latest version of Netscape's browser would not be ready for the release of Windows 95.
After declining Microsoft's offer, Netscape did not obtain the necessary information until three months later, which Barksdale says was ``precisely what Microsoft had threatened at the June 21 meeting.''
These allegations concerning technical information are legally significant because they portray Microsoft as using the power from its operating-system dominance to reward allies and to punish rivals _ something Microsoft has consistently maintained it does not do.
Andreessen, whose notes on his laptop computer are a vital piece of the government's evidence, is said by Barksdale to be an ``extraordinarily fast typist'' _ an aside clearly intended to deflect questions raised by Microsoft's lawyers about the credibility of the notes.
In his trial statement, Barksdale quoted these notes at length including Microsoft's effort to keep Netscape out of the Windows 95 market for the browser _ or ``client'' in computer jargon.
Typing all capital letters for emphasis, Andreessen wrote that Microsoft wanted to ``OWN THE WIN95 CLIENT MARKET AND THAT NETSCAPE SHOULD STAY AWAY.''
Stinging from the government's opening statement, a defiant Microsoft Corp. forcefully defended its chairman, Bill Gates, in federal court on Tuesday, asserting that the no-holds-barred tactics of his company are not only common in the computer industry but also good for economy.
Microsoft's opening salvo in the sweeping antitrust suit was crafted as much for public opinion as for the court.
The company faces weeks of being portrayed as an alleged commercial predator in a highly publicized trial, which could badly tarnish Microsoft's reputation even if it wins.
The government's case, which opened on Monday in the U.S. District Court here, amounts to a litany of episodes of Microsoft's having used its market power to bully and bend competitors, business partners and corporate customers to its will.
On Tuesday, Microsoft's legal team sought to frame these episodes as part of rough-and-tumble capitalism.
While the way Microsoft does business may not be to everyone's liking, they suggested, it is certainly not illegal.
``The antitrust laws are not a code of civility in business,'' said John Warden, Microsoft's lead lawyer.
In his two-hour opening statement, Warden angrily accused the government of trying to ``demonize Bill Gates,'' whom he described as ``a man whose vision and innovation have been at the core of the benefits that society is reaping from the information age.''
The Justice Department and 20 states suing Microsoft, Warden said, are misinterpreting routine business meetings in the computer industry as anticompetitive conspiracies.
The government's case focuses largely on the Internet software market and the business practices Microsoft used in its fight against the Netscape Communications Corp., the early leader in the browser software used to navigate the World Wide Web.
A key charge in the suit, for example, is that Microsoft prodded Netscape to illegally divide up the browser market in a June 1995 meeting _ a charge based mainly on the accounts of Netscape executives.
``Netscape's account of this meeting was fantastical,'' Warden said.
``None of the histrionics, shouting and table pounding occurred.
It's fantasy.''
In Microsoft's view, the government's case is wrongheaded because it does not understand the computer industry, especially the necessity of cooperation among companies so that sophisticated technology products work with each other.
Just as the line between one software product and another often blurs, the company argues, so does the line between competition and cooperation; rivals in one area routinely cooperate in another.
Microsoft will attempt to cast doubt on several of the government's allegations by characterizing meetings as efforts at cooperation by companies that, understandably, do not always agree.
The government, for example, has alleged that Microsoft tried to pressure both the Intel Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. to back off Internet software efforts than conflicted with Microsoft's plans _ and to support Microsoft in the browser war.
``Those proposals and threats claimed by the government,'' Warden said, ``will be shown by evidence to have been garden-variety commercial discussions between companies developing complementary products.
They are of no antitrust consequence.''
As the defendant, Microsoft does not have to prove that it behaved innocently or even ethically.
Instead, the role of Microsoft's legal team is to cast considerable doubt on the government's case _ both its specific allegations of bullying tactics and its broad theme that the economy and consumers are ultimately harmed by Microsoft's behavior.
nn 	In the afternoon court session, the Microsoft defense moved to the cross-examination of the government's lead-off witness, James Barksdale, the president and chief executive of Netscape.
To speed up the trial, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson has ordered that direct testimony from witnesses for both sides must be submitted in writing beforehand.
So all the courtroom questioning of witnesses begins with cross-examination.
With Barksdale on the stand, Microsoft's legal tactics soon became apparent.
Warden, a detailed, methodical interrogator, sought to portray Netscape as a Microsoft rival that went running to the Justice Department as a business tactic.
His questions also tried to lead Barksdale into admitting that all software makers are constantly adding new features to their products and that many companies have large shares of their markets without being branded a monopolist _ central themes of Microsoft's defense.
A lean, craggy 55-year-old executive who speaks with the accent of his native Louisiana, Barksdale proved an elusive and often entertaining witness.
Warden asked Barksdale about the early years of his career when he worked as a salesman for the IBM Corp. from 1965 to 1972, years when IBM faced the kind of antitrust scrutiny Microsoft faces today.
Warden asked Barksdale if he believed the then-dominant IBM was a monopolist.
``I don't know if I believed it,'' Barksdale replied, ``but we were trained to behave as if we were a monopoly because we were operating under a consent decree,'' as Microsoft is today.
Warden then asked Barksdale if he did not believe that the dominant product of that day _ the IBM mainframe computer _ was not a so-called bundled product of hardware and software that customers had to buy together.
The question relates to the current case because the government alleges that Microsoft's Windows operating system and its Internet Explorer browser are in fact two products bundled together for the purpose of forcing customers who want its industry-standard operating system to also take its browser.
Microsoft says the browser is a feature of its Windows operating system, and thus a single product.
To the mainframe question, Barksdale replied that IBM mainframe hardware and software was sold as a bundle but that a 1968 consent decree forced IBM to also sell them separately _ very similar to the unbundling remedy that the government is seeking in the current Microsoft case.
``That forced unbundling gave rise to a whole new industry of hardware companies like Amdahl that made mainframe machines that run IBM mainframe software,'' Barksdale said.
To try to show that Netscape viewed a government suit as a competitive tactic, Warden repeatedly questioned Barksdale about his meetings with Justice Department officials including Joel Klein, the assistant attorney general in charge of the antitrust division.
Warden produced a document for presentation at a Netscape strategy meeting, titled the ``Project Rocket Launch Plan.''
At the meeting, held early this year, one of four items under the heading ``The Situation'' was ``DOJ and court actions create opportunity for Netscape.''
Warden then asked Barksdale whether he viewed a Justice Department suit as a ``key'' opportunity for his company.
Not a key one perhaps, Barksdale replied, but he did view a government antitrust suit against Microsoft as ``a way of protecting an opportunity to keep the playing field open for Internet software.''
Demonstrating yet again the power of its franchise, the Microsoft Corp.
Tuesday reported that its quarterly earnings had risen 58 percent over their level a year earlier, far exceeding Wall Street estimates.
Microsoft, the world's leading maker of computer software, said demand for the Windows 98 operating system exceeded its projections, particularly in Japan and Europe.
Microsoft's improved performance coincided with the beginning stages of a landmark antitrust trial in Washington that could threaten its dominance in computer software.
The company, which the Department of Justice has portrayed as a ruthless and unfair competitor, said its strength in the latest quarter was derived mostly from Windows 98, which was released just last June, and the Windows NT corporate operating system.
The results for Microsoft, which is based in Redmond, Wash., were released after the stock market had closed.
In NASDAQ trading, Microsoft shares closed at $100.25, down $2.69, which may have reflected the opening of the antitrust trial on Monday.
But in after-hours trading, the shares traded as high as $103.75.
``Business is good, so the doom-and-gloom scenario of some economic prognosticators certainly hasn't come to pass,'' Greg Maffei, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview.
``This is not just for Microsoft, but the whole PC industry.''
Despite the widespread economic problems in much of the world, Maffei noted, the six largest software companies and eight largest computer and chip companies that have reported earnings have all beaten estimates.
While continuing to urge caution about the outlook, as Microsoft executives do each quarter, Maffei said the company was likely to do better than expected in the second fiscal quarter as well.
He said he would advise securities analysts to adjust their estimates upward.
For the quarter ended Sept. 30, Microsoft earned $1.68 billion, or 62 cents a diluted share, more than twice the $663 million, or 25 cents a share, reported in the comparable period a year ago.
Revenues rose 26 percent, to $3.95 billion from $3.13 billion.
The latest results included a $160 million one-time gain on the sale of Softimage, while in the comparable quarter last year the company took a previously announced $296 million write-off related to the purchase of WebTV Networks Inc.
Without these one-time items, Microsoft's earnings rose to $1.52 billion, or 56 cents a share, compared to the previous year's $959 million, or 36 cents a share, to record the 58 percent gain.
Analysts surveyed by First Call Corp., which tracks earnings results, had expected Microsoft to earn 49 cents a share.
``It was a terrific quarter, a real blowout, a very pleasant surprise for Microsoft shareholders,'' said Rick Sherlund, an analyst with Goldman Sachs.
Microsoft's results ``benefited from much higher margins,'' he said.
``We had a combination of better than expected revenues and lower than expected expenses in the quarter,'' he said.
Maffei said the improved profit margins were partly a seasonal phenomenon because the company does less hiring during the summer and the marketing costs associated with the launch of Windows 98 were largely in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 1998.
Also, service costs are lower for Windows 98 than for Windows 95.
``We had better than expected revenues, and we were at the low end of our spending,'' he said.
Although the antitrust suit brought against Microsoft by the United States Department of Justice did not affect earnings, Maffei said, it does have a direct cost in increased legal spending.
``That's a large cost, but not a material cost,'' he said.
``We do worry about the continued cost of the DOJ's image blasting.''
Unearned revenue, the portion of sales Microsoft sets aside to reflect the long-term deployment of many of its products, grew to $3.13 billion in the quarter, up $245 million from a year ago.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $17.24 billion, compared with $13.93 billion a year ago.
On a cautionary note, Maffei said fallout from the Asian economic crisis remains a concern and the company is uncertain about future performance in Latin American countries.
Corporate spending for computer issues related to the year 2000 may divert revenues away from some Microsoft products but could benefit others, he said.
In a recent move that indicated he has no intention of backing away from his company's aggressive business tactics, Microsoft Corp.'s chairman, Bill Gates, has proposed acquiring the software business behind 3Com Corp.'s popular Palm Pilot hand-held computer, according to people who have been briefed on the discussions.
The offer, made in an August meeting with 3Com's chairman, Eric Benhamou, was not accepted by 3Com executives, those people say.
But certainly, Gates is said to have dangled an alluring kingmaker's deal: If 3Com were willing to sell off its software business, a market favorite compared with Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, Gates would make the company's remaining Palm Computing hardware business, ``the Compaq Computer of the hand-held market.''
Officials of both companies declined to confirm or deny word of the meeting at Microsoft's Redmond, Wash., headquarters, at which the two executives discussed a variety of strategic possibilities between the two companies, according to several people privy to the discussions.
Though the proposal was unsuccessful, the approach provides graphic insight into Microsoft's business tactics.
As in its abortive 1995 deal to acquire the financial software maker Intuit, which was rejected not by Intuit but by the Justice Department, Microsoft is increasingly looking to buy its way into markets where its own products are not competitive enough to unseat established brands.
And the Palm Pilot offer would appear to indicate that Microsoft has not scaled back its ambitions in the face of the Justice Department's antitrust suit.
The antitrust suit, initiated last October, originally focused on Microsoft's linking of its Internet Explorer World Wide Web browser with the industry-dominant Windows 95 operating system.
But more recently, the Justice Department has begun to examine a wide range of the company's business practices.
Negotiations to control development and production of the software that powers the most popular hand-held computer, the Palm Pilot, are significant, analysts said, because hand-held devices, from note-taking aids to cellular telephones, are one part of the market where Microsoft does not appear to be quickly gaining ground.
The market is seen as growing more quickly than the computer industry over all.
``Maybe Bill Gates was trying to get rid of a competitor,'' said Andrew Seybold, a computer and communications analyst and publisher of his own newsletter, based in Boulder Creek, Calif. ``I don't think the Windows CE products have slowed them down at all.''
While Microsoft officials did not directly dispute word of the overture to 3Com, they rebutted suggestions that they had lost confidence in the Windows CE software.
``Any statement suggesting that Microsoft would license or buy the Palm software in lieu of Windows CE is flatly false,'' said Greg Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman.
``3Com is a great partner and we have frequent discussions with them,'' he added.
``But it would be inappropriate to comment on those discussions.''
A spokeswoman for 3Com simply said the company would not comment on any of the discussions the company had held with Microsoft.
Though the two companies have had a broad set of partnerships in other areas of computing, they have been bitter enemies in the market for hand-held computers.
Earlier this year, 3Com filed suit in Germany after Microsoft introduced a clone of the Palm Pilot, which it called the Palm PC.
Microsoft backed down, renaming its hand-held unit the Palm-sized PC.
The Palm Computing business of 3Com has shipped more than 1.5 million copies of its hand-held device, making it the dominant player in the market for so-called personal digital assistants after earlier efforts like Apple Computer Inc.'s Newton failed to gain broad acceptance.
By comparison, only about 750,000 Windows CE-based hand-held systems have been shipped, according to Rob Enderle, an analyst at Giga Information Group in Santa Clara, Calif.
&QL;  NYT-10-18-98 1807EDT &QL;
Following is the text of the first two sections of the Sherman Act, as passed by Congress in 1890.
As the foundation on which federal antitrust law has been built, the act has been amended elevating the crime to a felony, increasing the fines and prison terms for individuals and setting fines for corporations convicted of violating it.
In the case of Microsoft, the government has invoked the Sherman Act to file a civil suit that seeks to change the company's business practices, not a criminal suit that seeks financial penalties.
An Act to Protect Trade And Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and Monopolies: 	Section 1.
Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal.
Every person who shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court.
Section 2.
Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade of commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court.
&QL;  NYT-10-18-98 1742EDT &QL;
Attempting to refute a central allegation in the government's antitrust case, Microsoft Corp. on Wednesday produced a secret e-mail message from the chairman of Netscape Communications Corp. seeking Microsoft's cooperation, offering to stay out of its way and suggesting that Microsoft invest in Netscape.
The e-mail, written on Dec. 29, 1994, was introduced to suggest that it was Netscape, not Microsoft, that initiated some of the elements of what the government portrays as an illegal offer by Microsoft in June 1995 to divide with Netscape the market for software used to browse the Internet's World Wide Web.
The e-mail message, written by James Clark, the chairman and cofounder of Netscape, was submitted in court Wednesday by Microsoft as part of its defense in the sweeping antitrust suit filed by the Justice Department and 20 states.
It was perhaps the most surprising piece of evidence produced during a second day of often combative cross-examination of the government's leading witness, James Barksdale, the president and chief executive of Netscape.
Throughout the morning and afternoon sessions, John Warden, Microsoft's lead lawyer, frequently tried to goad Barksdale to concede key points in Microsoft's defense _ namely, that Netscape's browser is widely distributed despite Microsoft's allegedly unfair business practices, and that Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser only began gaining market share against Netscape's Navigator in the fall of 1996, because Explorer had been significantly improved, not because of predatory conduct on the part of Microsoft.
Barksdale made few concessions, repeatedly replying, ``No, I don't agree.''
In the e-mail memo to Dan Rosen, a Microsoft executive, Clark wrote ``We have never planned to compete with you.''
Later, Clark wrote, ``We want to make this company a success, but not at Microsoft's expense.
We'd like to work with you.
Working together could be in your self-interest as well as ours.
Depending on the interest level, you might take an equity position in Netscape, with the ability to expand the position later.''
Clark concluded his e-mail appeal by noting, ``No one in my organization knows about this message.''
Barksdale said he did not know about the e-mail until recently and that the first time he saw it was in court Wednesday.
He said that Clark told him about his December 1994 proposal to Microsoft this summer when Netscape executives were being deposed by Microsoft's legal team in preparation for the trial.
``He said that he made an offer to them including some of this and that it was rejected,'' Barksdale testified.
On the witness stand Wednesday, Barksdale sought to portray the December 1994 e-mail from Clark as a freelance overture that did not represent corporate policy.
``He never discussed it with the board, and he never discussed it with me,'' Barksdale said.
Because Clark's offer was quickly dismissed by Microsoft, the government asserts that its introduction in court by Microsoft is mainly an effort by the defense to try to ``change the facts and change the subject,'' in the words of David Boies, special trial counsel for the Justice Department.
The December 1994 e-mail is not related, the government contends, to the June 1995 meeting in which the Justice Department says that Microsoft made its illegal offer.
According to the government, Microsoft offered to make an investment in Netscape and give Netscape's software developers crucial technical information about the Windows operating system if Netscape would agree not to make a browser for Windows 95 operating system, which Microsoft released two months later.
The government says Netscape rejected Microsoft's collusion pact, while Microsoft replies that the government is misrepresenting what was a routine business meeting.
Clark sent his e-mail during Netscape's precarious startup phase, before the company had yet begun to garner a lot of sales and with Clark watching his $5 million investment in the company dwindle.
In his testimony, Barksdale tried to dismiss the memo as a sales ploy, perhaps made in desperation, as opposed to a genuine business plan for Netscape.
Warden asked Barksdale of Clark, ``Do you regard him as a truthful man?''
After pausing, Barksdale replied, ``I regard him as a salesman.''
``I'm not going to touch that,'' Warden responded.
Microsoft also introduced a portion of Clark's pretrial deposition to try to prove that as early as the fall of 1994 Netscape was aware of Microsoft's intention to bundle its browser with its Windows operating system.
This is potentially significant because the government says that Microsoft's principal reason for folding the browser into the operating system was as an anticompetitive tactic to undermine Netscape.
In the fall of 1994, Microsoft asserts, Netscape had not yet produced its first product.
In his deposition, Clark testified that he first heard Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, talk of bundling the browser and the operating system at an industry conference in October 1994.
Clark was asked if he had a personal conversation with Gates about this, and Clark said no, instead recalling it as a vaguely threatening comment made to the conference audience.
``All he said was: I hope no one plans to make money on browsers because they will be bundled into the operating system,'' Clark said.
In his cross-examination, Warden also tried to establish that Netscape had long viewed all-but-free distribution of its browser as part of its business plan.
This assertion relates to the case because Microsoft's decision to distribute its Internet Explorer browser free is characterized in the government's suit as one of several extraordinarily aggressive steps Microsoft took to try to undercut Netscape.
To make this point, Warden introduced as evidence portions of the manuscript from a new book, ``Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and Its Battle with Microsoft,'' by Michael Cusumano, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, and David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard business school.
The book, based on extensive interviews with present and former Netscape executives, quotes Marc Andreessen, a cofounder and executive vice president, as describing browser marketing as ``free but not free.''
The concept refers to the notion that many individuals and corporations downloaded browser software from Netscape's Web site without paying for it.
Still, free distribution is valuable because it encourages companies to adopt Netscape's technology, and Netscape bases its business on selling large software packages for hub computers, or servers, that feed data to many personal computers in a network.
Warden raised the issue to suggest that Netscape's business model did not vary much from what Microsoft did.
When asked about it, Barksdale replied, ``I have never heard this term `free but not free.'
I have not heard it, I don't espouse that, and that was not our strategy.''
A lawyer for Microsoft Corp. on Thursday portrayed the company's competitor in the Internet software business, Netscape Communications Corp., as a willing and eager participant in deal-making that culminated in a June 1995 meeting at which the government and Netscape now say that Microsoft illegally offered to divide the market.
That meeting and the charge of an illegal offer to divide the market for Internet browsers, the software used to navigate the World Wide Web, are central elements of the antitrust suit by the Justice Department and 20 states being heard in United States district court here.
Late in the day, the Justice Department made public an e-mail that seemed to support elements of the government's account.
The memo, from Dan Rosen, a senior Microsoft executive who attended the meeting with Netscape's leaders, was written to Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, and others.
It summarizes the meeting and begins with a list of ``Our goals going into the meeting, in priority order.''
The first goal, the memo said, was to ``establish Microsoft ownership'' of the market for Web browsers that run on Windows computers.
In his third day cross-examining James L. Barksdale, Netscape's president and chief executive, the Microsoft lawyer, John Warden, suggested that the market-division allegation stemmed from anger on the part of Netscape executives when they learned at that meeting that Microsoft intended to bundle its own browser with its Windows operating system.
``Is there really anything going on here other than a difference of opinion between you and Microsoft on where the line is'' between a browser and an operating system?
Warden asked.
At that Barksdale _ normally a calm and unerringly polite witness _ exploded: ``We feel strongly that a browser is a separate application, and a manufacturer that controls 90 percent, plus, of the world's operating systems and pulls the browser into it has stepped across that line!''
``That's your objection?''
``You disagree with them building it into the operating system?''
``I do, I do, I do,'' Barksdale said.
Among other charges, the government's suit accuses Microsoft of trying to persuade Netscape executives, at the meeting on June 21, 1995, to quit marketing browsers that run on Windows computers.
If they did not agree, the government says, Microsoft threatened to destroy Netscape.
Such a collusion to divide markets would be a violation of federal antitrust law.
When Netscape refused, the government further charges, Microsoft decided to bundle its own Web browser, Internet Explorer, with the Windows system to drive Netscape out of the browser business.
Windows runs more than 90 percent of all new personal computers.
In court Thursday, Microsoft presented memos and e-mail messages suggesting that Netscape had eagerly sought the June meeting.
Barksdale acknowledged that he had written memos to other Netscape executives in early June 1995 in which he had enthusiastically reported that in an earlier meeting, Microsoft had shown an interest in investing in his company.
``No, they didn't do anything as rash as trying to buy us (yet) but they did suggest that they wanted to invest in us,'' Barksdale wrote to another employee three weeks before the meeting.
``It was a good session.''
Another memo from Barksdale to several senior Netscape employees reported that Microsoft had been ``very friendly, nonthreatening'' and had congratulated Netscape on having ``done a great job.''
As Barksdale's e-mail recounted it, the Microsoft executives had added, ``How can we work together?
Discussion done with Bill's blessing,'' a reference to Gates.
With that as a prelude, Warden, Microsoft's lead counsel in the case, produced several other e-mail messages and memos suggesting that Netscape and Microsoft had both plunged into planning for the June 21 meeting.
Warden used each to cast further doubt on the government's allegations.
One piece of documentary evidence indicating that Microsoft did propose dividing the browser market are notes that Marc Andreessen, a cofounder and executive vice president of Netscape, took on his laptop computer during the meeting.
A copy of those notes was released Thursday by the court.
Andreessen wrote that Microsoft had issued a ``threat that Microsoft will own the Windows 95 client market, and that Netscape should stay away.''
Another piece of evidence is the memo from Rosen to Gates, written the day after the meeting.
Rosen quotes another member of the Micrsoft team as telling the Netscape executives: ``We need to understand if you will adopt our platform,'' Windows, ``and build on top if it, or if you are going to compete with us.''
The memo continued, ``They understand that we are going to incorporate into the platform technology that they provide today.''
The Microsoft executives, according to Rosen's memo, told Netscape's leaders that their intention was to ``suck most of the functionality of the current Netscape browser'' into Windows.
But Rosen's memo did not indicate that the Netscape executives had reacted negatively to this.
The memo was introduced into evidence Thursday, but not referred to in court.
In fact, summing up his conclusions after three days of testimony, Warden said, ``I suggest to you, Barksdale, that if you look at the whole record of events leading up to June 21, the only fair conclusion that can be reached is that Andreessen imagined or invented the proposal to divide the markets, and that you and your company signed onto it in order to assist in this prosecution.''
``I absolutely disagree with that,'' Barksdale retorted.
``It's absurd.
I was in the meeting.
I know what I know.
``I was there,'' he said.
``You weren't.''
The New Economy is on trial here along with Microsoft Corp.
Sure, the company is the one in the dock.
But the outcome of the case against Microsoft will establish the ground rules for how the doctrine of antitrust will apply to high-technology fields like computer software.
And the software industry is seen as being at the forefront of new patterns of behavior by workers, companies and markets that define the New Economy.
In the New Economy, people live on Internet time and product cycles are measured in months, not years.
It is the slice of the economy driven by entrepreneurs, stock options and network effects.
Silicon Valley is its headquarters, with subsidiaries in Seattle, Austin and elsewhere.
It is the future, its proponents insist, coming to your home soon.
If Microsoft wins, the digital age will unfold as a free-fire zone of let-'er-rip capitalism, for better or worse.
If Microsoft loses, courts or the antitrust watchdogs may be getting their oars into such complex matters as product design, for better or worse.
Let the courts decide.
But for an analytic examination of struggle and competition at the edge of the New Economy today, a new book, ``Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and Its Battle with Microsoft'' (The Free Press), offers some intriguing insights.
The book, written by Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, and David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School, was placed in evidence at the Microsoft trial last week.
In its defense, Microsoft points to passages in the book in which executives of Netscape Communications are quoted speaking candidly about their missteps.
Microsoft calls these statements proof that Netscape's travails in the Internet browser market were its own doing, not because Microsoft was acting like a nasty monopolist.
Yet the book as a whole reads as a coming-of-age account of the triumphs and setbacks of a fast-moving Internet pioneer daring or foolish enough to take on the dominant company in computing.
Netscape's experience teaches as much about what hasn't changed as what has.
A fundamental lesson is that even revolutionary technologies take time to cause a revolution.
No matter how great the tail wind of hype and venture capital, the Next Big Thing takes time to change the practices and habits of companies and people.
``Netscape got too ambitious and too wedded to the belief that the Internet revolution would change everything tomorrow,'' Yoffie explained.
The threat Netscape posed to Microsoft was that its browser could serve as an alternative ``platform'' to Microsoft's Windows.
In other words, the browser could take the place of Windows as the first thing users see when they start their computers and as the departure point from which applications could be started.
But it takes a long time for a new computing platform to catch hold, as thousands of software programmers gradually become converts and write applications that work with the new platform.
By often and publicly declaring that it was going to challenge Microsoft head-on, Netscape aroused the software giant, which trailed in Internet software.
``Netscape had the perfect Trojan horse,'' Yoffie said.
``But it woke up the enemy before it was entrenched.''
As it matured, Netscape also found that while the speed of product development was important, so was traditional product quality.
Netscape's freewheeling ``hacker culture'' fostered flexibility and creativity _ one Netscape manager quoted in the book described its development style as ``slightly out of control'' _ but also led to buggy software, a nuisance that became problematic with more sales to quality-conscious corporations.
In the last year or so, the authors note, Netscape has made strides in quality, hiring testers and increasing its use of automated testing software.
Netscape has increased its ratio of testers to developers from one-to-five to one-to-three, though it still trails Microsoft's one-to-one ratio.
``You can be fast and flexible in software development, but you have to pay the price in testing,'' Cusumano said.
Netscape's future is by no means assured.
But for all the talk at the trial about Microsoft trying to crush it, Netscape has done a good job of changing its strategy to avoid tackling Microsoft head-on whenever possible.
What Netscape, the Internet pioneer, has learned _ setting aside the legal issues _ is precisely what the pioneers of the personal-computer revolution learned.
They declared that their technology would change the world, but the process works in the other direction, too.
For a breakthrough technology to move into the mainstream, it must become more mainstream _ easier, more reliable and more useful for the workaday chores of the economy.
It does not change everything overnight.
Terrorist bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania on August 7 1998 killed 248 in Nairobi, and 11 in Dar es Salaam.
In Nairobi 5400 were injured and 97 fully or partially blinded.
In the 76 days following the bombings evidence was gathered linking the perpetrators to the Al Qaeda organization of Osama bin Laden, several indictments were made and several suspects were arrested but no one had yet been brought to trial.
A key figure in the Nairobi bombing, Abdallah Mohammed Fazul, head of Al Qaeda in Kenya, had disappeared and was still at large.
A total of 248 people, including a dozen Americans, were killed in the terrorist bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi on August 7, 1998.
A twin attack on the U.S. Embassy in Tanzania killed 11 people, all Africans.
Osama bin Laden is the suspected mastermind of the bombings.
Through the Saudis, the United States asked the Taliban, the Islamic movement that controls most of Afghanistan, to deport bin Laden, but they refused.
Evidence suggests that the terror suspects accused in the bombings, regardless of their nationality or place of residence, are associates of bin Laden or associated with terrorist groups under his control.
On August 7, 1998 the U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania were bombed.
A total of 259, all but 12 Africans, were killed and more than 5400, mostly in Nairobi, were injured.
Two vehicles were used in each attack.
The U.S. has tied these attacks to Osama bin Laden and his radical Islamic terrorist Al Qaeda organization.
Immediate retaliations included cruise missile attacks on his camp in Afghanistan and a factory in the Sudan.
By late October, a number of people had been charged, some arrested, and efforts to extradite others were continuing.
A tapestry of associations link Osama bin Laden to the U.S. embassy bombings in  Tanzania and Kenya and other terrorist acts.
Salih Idris owned a Sudanese  pharmaceutical plant with a suspected chemical weapons role and allegedly had  ties with a bin Laden backed group.
Fazul, accused of directing the Nairobi  attack, reportedly led the Kenyan cell of bin Laden's organization, Al Qaeda.
While in Kenya, Fazul roomed with el Hage who was arrested in New York and  charged with being a member of bin Laden's network.
The Taliban has refused  U.S. and Saudi Arabian requests to deport bin Laden from Afghanistan.
Solemn-faced Kenyans whose relatives were killed in the terrorist bombing of a U.S. Embassy collected benefits on Friday they said failed to compensate for their losses.
``It's not enough, nothing could be enough,'' Beatrice Akoth Yongo, a widow with four young children and another due in December, said in the shade of a flowering jacaranda tree.
Attorney-General Amos Wako, representing the government at the gathering of 100 in downtown Uhuru Park, acknowledged with regret, ``This is peanuts for someone who has died.''
Yongo was one of 31 relatives paid 100,000 Kenyan shillings (dlrs 1,667) each from donations that have reached 228 million Kenyan shillings (dlrs 3.8 million).
They came, some from days away, and wore their Sunday best.
Several shed tears as they accepted checks from smiling officials offering condolences.
In the coming days, more of the 213 Kenyan families who lost a relative will be compensated, said Charles Njonjo, chairman of the National Disaster Emergency Fund.
Many families previously received an immediate payment of 50,000 Kenyan shillings (dlrs 833) for burial expenses.
Additional payments will be made, if money becomes available, Njonjo said.
A total of 248 people, including a dozen Americans, were killed in the Nairobi bombing on Aug. 7.
A twin attack on the U.S. Embassy in neighboring Tanzania killed 11 people, all Africans.
Compensation later will be paid to the most seriously injured among more than 5,400 people who were hurt in Kenya, mostly passersby sliced by flying debris, Njonjo said.
Amounts have not been determined.
Nearly two months after the bombings, many people still need physical and psychological help, and not enough is being provided, aid agencies say.
``The needs are very serious and we keep identifying more and more as the days go by,'' said Amimo Agola of the Bomb Relief Support Unit, an umbrella group for all nongovernmental agencies assisting bomb victims.
A total of 17 people remain in hospital for treatment of serious physical injuries, including broken limbs and backs and amputations, the National Disaster Operations Center said.
Another 200 people need reconstructive surgery, Agola said.
Meanwhile, mangled eyelids are failing to protect otherwise undamaged eyes, hands with severed tendons are turning into useless claws.
Patients, although unable to work and lacking medical insurance, must now pay for treatment that initially was free.
Most rehabilitation programs need money, too, Agola said.
For example, 97 people were fully or partially blinded by flying glass and debris, and need training that the Kenya Society for the Blind can't always afford to provide.
Many patients can't afford to buy the powerful eyeglasses they need.
``The greatest need is that many, many of us have been psychologically traumatized, and very, very few are receiving help,'' Agola said.
Businesses have started to fire people who have not yet returned to work because they are still upset by the bombing, she said.
Especially heartbreaking are the pleas from people who say they've lost the family's only breadwinner.
In Kenya, as in much of Africa, strong ties of the extended family _ and the enormous disparity between earnings in the city and the countryside _ make it common for one urban breadwinner to be the main source of support for dozens of other family members.
The government's social welfare system is hopelessly inadequate, and life insurance is a luxury of the rich.
Some people were angry at the paucity of assistance.
``This is nothing,'' Esther Dalizu said, waving a compensation check.
Her dead sister was a senior bank employee who had earned the same amount in just a few months.
``The loss cannot be compensated.''
Dalizu said she planned to save the money for the education of her sister's 11-year-old daughter.
Yongo, 32, said without her husband's salary the family now must live on her earnings of less than half as much.
After she pays the rent on a government-subsidized apartment, she has just 1,200 shillings (dlrs 20) per month to feed her brood, pay utilities and school fees.
``It has been so difficult,'' she said, blotting away a tear.
Relatives cannot afford to help her.
Yongo is afraid her husband's dream of university educations for their children has died with him.
``This makes me even sadder,'' she said.
U.S. prosecutors have asked for a 20-day extension to provide Germany with paperwork necessary to extradite a top lieutenant of Saudi terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden, officials said Saturday.
Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, 40, of Sudan, has been jailed since his arrest near Munich on Sept. 16 by Bavarian authorities acting on a U.S. warrant.
Under German law, U.S. officials have 40 days after the arrest to turn over supporting evidence so a German court can rule on their extradition request.
A Bavarian Justice Ministry spokesman, Gerhard Zierl, said U.S. authorities a few days ago asked the court hearing the case for an extra 20 days to provide the necessary material.
Quoting unidentified Bavarian law enforcement sources, Focus newsmagazine reported Saturday that the evidence turned over so far was not very strong.
The magazine said much of it was based on the testimony of an FBI informant, a former bin Laden associate, who made only vague connections between Salim and terrorist activities.
Zierl declined to comment on the report, but said U.S. authorities probably asked for more time just a precautionary measure.
U.S. authorities charge Salim helped finance, train and arm members of a terrorist organization, including the alleged bombers of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
A criminal complaint unsealed Sept. 25 in U.S. District Court in New York charges him with murder conspiracy and use of weapons of mass destruction.
&UR; (pfg-cb)
The United States has obtained new evidence to link the owner of a Sudanese factory destroyed in a U.S. cruise missile strike last month to a terrorist group backed by Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind of the bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa, according to U.S. intelligence officials.
The evidence, the officials said last week, shows that Salih Idris, the owner of Al Shifa pharmaceutical plant in Khartoum, has had financial dealings with members of Islamic Jihad, an Egypt-based group responsible for the assassination there of President Anwar Sadat in 1981.
Islamic Jihad, in turn, receives money and sponsorship from bin Laden and has been absorbed into his terror network, the officials added.
This evidence was uncovered after the United States destroyed Idris' factory in a missile attack following the bombing of the U.S. embassies, the officials said.
A spokesman for Idris denied the accusations, saying Idris had no ties either to bin Laden or to any Islamic terrorist groups.
In a statement provided by Tim Pendry, his London-based adviser, Idris said: ``I have absolutely no relationship with any Islamic terrorist organization anywhere in the world.
I have never met Mr. bin Laden, I have never spoken with him, I have never had any financial or business relationship with him, nor knowingly with anyone acting as his agent.''
U.S. officials say they have also received new reports of an increase in the Iraqi presence in Sudan since the missile attack.
Officials said they were not certain what the Iraqis were now doing in Khartoum.
But intelligence agents previously obtained evidence that the manager of the Shifa plant made frequent trips to Iraq, where he visited the head of the chemical weapons program.
In addition, a soil sample that the CIA clandestinely took at the Shifa plant showed the presence of a chemical used in the production of VX nerve gas, a process used only by Iraq.
The new evidence comes as President Clinton faces attack over his decision to strike the Shifa plant.
Some State Department and CIA officials have objected to the decision, arguing that it was based on tenuous evidence of a connection between the plant and bin Laden.
The criticism is also based on the suspicion that the United States has poor data on Sudan, as the CIA station there has been closed since 1995 and the entire U.S. Embassy since 1996.
In addition, more than 100 intelligence reports from a CIA informer in Sudan were withdrawn in January 1996 because they proved to be fabrications.
That year a second informer warned of several terrorist threats, including one against Anthony Lake, then the national security adviser, but his reports proved impossible to confirm.
Senior administration officials say that at the time of the cruise missile strike they had evidence of Sudan's involvement with bin Laden in a chemical weapons program, but no direct evidence linking the Shifa plant directly to that effort.
Now they say that the new evidence against Idris has confirmed their initial suspicions about Al Shifa.
At the time of the Aug. 20 cruise missile attack, Clinton administration officials acknowledge, they did not know that Idris owned the Shifa factory.
The CIA, which had begun to scrutinize the plant 18 months earlier, believed the plant's ownership was irrelevant.
``What we knew about the ownership was that a lot of it couldn't be reliably established,'' said one senior U.S. intelligence official.
Still, after the missile strike, when Idris was publicly identified as the owner, U.S. intelligence began to investigate his possible connections to chemical weapons and terrorism.
A Sudanese expatriate who now lives in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, Idris, 46, was previously a senior manager of the National Commercial Bank of Saudi Arabia.
He bought the Shifa plant in March.
Officials say U.S. intelligence has received reports that Idris launders money for international Islamic groups, and that he also has a stake in a company in Sudan that is 40 percent owned by the Military Industrial Corporation, a government entity that the United States says controls Sudanese chemical weapons development.
Bin Laden has helped finance the Military Industrial Corp. in his effort to use Sudan as a base for chemical weapons production, and talked to Sudanese leaders about testing poisonous gases against U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, according to U.S. intelligence.
But Pendry denied that Idris owned any businesses with the Military Industrial Corp.
U.S. intelligence officials declined to provide details about the reports of Idris' financial dealings with members of Islamic Jihad.
But they said that Islamic Jihad had now been consolidated into bin Laden's terrorist campaign.
The man accused of directing the bomb attack on the American Embassy in Kenya came of age in this impoverished Indian Ocean archipelago, a land where gifted teen-agers leave home to enroll in the radical Islamic academies of Libya, Sudan and Pakistan.
A tightly wound, brilliant student of the Koran who was thrown out of religious school for caning a lazy pupil hard enough to draw blood, Abdallah Mohammed Fazul set out for Pakistan 11 years ago, at age 15, to continue his education.
Sometime over the next few years, American authorities assert, he fell under the sway of terrorists waging what they call a holy war against the United States.
He was transformed into a killer who could coolly execute a bombing that left 250 people dead.
He is still at large after being indicted in the United States under an alias, Haroun Fazil, which he apparently used in Kenya.
As the object of a worldwide manhunt, he has a $2 million reward on his head.
The stark portrait of him as a terrorist baffles his wife, his Koran teacher and relatives in Comoros, a country with a relatively liberal Muslim character.
Even relatives who admit that he had a darker side say his religious fervor seemed limited to mundane things like animosity to television and threats to chase family members into the street if he caught them drinking beer.
Nearly two months after the bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, a picture of those charged in the case is slowly emerging.
They lived in different countries, labored in various professions but shared a devotion to radical Islam and a striking ability to keep family and friends in the dark about what American prosecutors say were their true activities.
Comoran officials express embarrassment that Fazil has turned the world's eyes on them.
But they say he is a true product of the forces that shaped his tropical nation _ poverty, Islam, racism and French colonialism.
He is one of thousands of young Comorans who have been forced by the lack of higher education to leave these strange and beautiful islands, where the world's largest volcanic crater meets startling aquamarine waves, where huge bats flit between the palm trees by day and the moon glows vividly at night, especially during power blackouts.
They study far away, in harsh desert lands where the path to holy martyrdom and the path to a bit of cash for a suffering family back home are the same: Join the legions of the Islamic Jihad.
The indictments filed so far suggest that Fazil was no ordinary legionnaire, but a highly intelligent, natural leader who played a central role in the bomb plot.
His wife's extended family lives in a yellow cinder-block building behind a one-room Islamic school on an alley paved only with sharp pumice.
They graciously welcomed two journalists into their threadbare rooms, offered coffee and talked for three hours.
His wife, a first cousin who married him five years ago and lived with him in Sudan and Kenya, called him a hard-working computer student and said he sometimes disappeared for weeks at a time.
His big brother said he had been a gentle, sometimes boastful child who could ``smurf-dance like Michael Jackson'' and never said anything about hating America.
When pressed, those who knew him said in so many words that they did not know him very well.
His siblings did not see him for years at a time, his wife does not expect a message even though he has been gone more than a month, and his old teachers say he never visited.
Each said, ``He has no friends I know of.''
According to the FBI, Fazil headed the Kenya cell of Al Qaeda, the terror network founded by Osama bin Laden, an exiled Saudi businessman.
It says Fazil rented the room where the bomb was assembled and drove the white pickup that guided it to the embassy.
On Aug. 14, a week after the Nairobi blast, he flew here.
He visited relatives and his local mosque.
On Aug. 22, Fazil took a flight to Dubai.
He had a ticket onward to Pakistan, but it went unused, and he disappeared.
His family says he left without explaining, as was his custom, and they drove him to the airport.
Tipped off by Nairobi telephone records that showed calls to a Moroni number, investigators descended on the family home on Sept. 2.
The Comoran gendarmes were accompanied by FBI agents with pistols and radio headsets, ``just like Delta Force'' said an uncle.
They took his brother, Omar, as well as his wife, Halima Badroudine Fazul, 22, and sister-in-law, Nabatte Fazul, 19, in for questioning.
They also seized two computers, diskettes, a camera, CDs and tapes, old letters, passports and birth certificates, two Korans, piles of old Newsweek and Time magazines and Kenyan newspapers, rubber stamps, most of the clothing of the family's men and some belonging to women and children.
The day of the search ended badly.
``The FBI behaved correctly _ they were not threatening,'' said Halima Fazul.
``But the Comoran gendarmes tipped my father out of bed to search it, even though he had a catheter in him.''
They banged on the ceiling over his bed with their gun butts, she said.
On her way back from the police station that evening, she was told that her father, who had been suffering from a bleeding ulcer, was collapsing.
She ran, stumbling in the dark.
``He took my hand and said, `Ah, Halima, you're back,''' and died, she said.
When asked about that later, a prosecutor and a ranking gendarme both shrugged, saying they were unaware that the older man had heart trouble.
No complete listing of the evidence against Fazil has been issued _ some may still be being tested by the FBI _ but threads can be pieced together from interviews.
Fazil had passports or ID documents from countries that he is not a citizen of, apparently including Kenya and France, and stamps for forging others.
The Kenyan newspapers he had kept were mostly about the bombing, an investigator said.
There was a list of prominent Comorans who would have to be killed to make way for fundamentalist rule.
Investigators also found a letter he wrote in 1991, when he was 19, to his brother Omar, then 24, in which he boasted that he had been trained to use explosives and fire machine guns.
nn 	Asked his reaction, Omar Fazul, an English teacher, said: ``I was impressed _ but I considered it childish.
I thought he was boasting.
I didn't believe him.''
Omar Fazul said he never discussed religion, politics or military service with his brother.
``We talk only about family problems,'' he said.
``It has never been proved to me that my brother is an Islamist.
He wears jeans and boots.''
Fazil was born in 1973, the youngest of six, just before his parents separated.
He began Koranic studies at 4 with an uncle and at 7 began studying with a professional teacher, Fundi Twawilou Abdulfateh.
By the age of 9, he knew the Koran by heart and was giving religious instructions on the radio.
He was so smart, another relative said, that he was in third grade while his older sister was in first.
He played soccer and the flute and could do a standing flip.
As a teen-ager, he showed off with kung-fu fighting sticks and called himself James Bond.
He also had moments of rage.
He got into a fistfight with a teacher at his French public school, and slammed younger students down in their chairs when they failed at Koran recital.
``He sometimes had a strange attitude,'' Fundi Twawilou said.
``On the soccer field, he would provoke fights with bigger guys.
When that guy would go to beat him, he would run away.
So Omar, his brother, would be beaten.
But Omar has crippled feet, so Abdallah would return to fight for him.''
At age 11, he cut another pupil's ear.
Asked to leave, he studied for two years with Fundi Mohammed Ali, an older teacher, who remembers him as ``brilliant, respectful to others, deeply religious and very calm.''
At 14, he switched to a school run by Fundi Soidiki Mbapandza, one of the leading Islamic fundamentalists here, before leaving for Pakistan.
Outside the tin walls of that school compound, girls and young women enter through one door, carefully avoiding eye contact with the opposite sex, while male students glower aggressively at visitors.
Fundi Soidiki, who was questioned by the police, declined several requests for an interview.
The most militant strains of fundamentalism are almost unknown in Comoros.
The islands are 99 percent Sunni Muslim, and many men wear ankle-length shirts and Arab-style caps, while almost all women wrap scarves around their bodies, legs and heads.
But the atmosphere is relaxed _ the scarves often merely adorn Western dresses and few women hide their faces or hair.
Speaking of Fazil, Justice Minister Mohammed Abdou Mmadi said, ``Mr. Fazul learned a different culture abroad.
It would be impossible for a Comoran who grew up here to become a terrorist.''
The islands are very poor, with a gross domestic product of $470 per person.
Tourists _ mostly divers _ are few, and 80 percent of the local people are subsistence farmers and fishermen.
Because scholarships to France have dried up, many accept the meager ones offered by religious colleges in Pakistan, Egypt, Sudan and Libya, where they are recruited by fundamentalists.
``There are thousands of Haroun Fazils all over the world, recruited into the foreign legion of Libya and the armies of Iran,'' warned Said Hilali Moussa, chief of President Abdoulkarim Taki's cabinet.
Many families get only one letter from their departed sons, said a tourism official.
It says they are safe, living in a hostel.
``Then they don't hear from them for years, and they they find out they are in the army.
Lots end up fighting in Afghanistan.''
Something like that happened to Fazil.
``When he came back from Pakistan,'' a relative said, ``he told his mother he wanted to go into the army.
She told him, `It is up to you.'''
After that he became more of a mystery.
He was trained, presumably in Afghanistan, and has lived in Sudan, Kenya and perhaps in Yemen.
He comes home only for short visits, never leaves an address and calls from pay phones.
Five years ago, on a brief visit, he went with his father to Moheli Island to meet his uncle for the first time.
His cousins Halima, 17, and Nabatte, 14, were there.
``We were eating, and not well dressed, so we were embarrassed,'' Halima Fazul recalled.
``We ran inside to change.''
At the end of the day, he had his father ask for her hand.
Mrs. Fazul used to go fully veiled, with only her eyes showing, relatives said, and neighbors in Kenya said the same thing.
But when she went out visiting in Comoros, she wore her scarf off her face and was unfazed when her young son pulled it off in front of male visitors.
Her husband used to wear the traditional long shirts but now wears trousers and sometimes a suit.
When teased about the Western dress by his father, a relative said, he pointed at his heart and replied: ``Proving you fear God is not in your clothes.
It's in here.''
He now has money, relatives said.
He sends some home, and last year paid half the cost for his mother to go to Paris for cancer treatment.
His wife cannot identify his boss or say exactly what he does, except work on computers.
``He goes away at 8 and comes back at 6,'' she said.
``I don't know what he does outside.''
She denied having heard of bin Laden before the blast and protested that her husband did not hate Americans.
She also gave him an alibi, saying that at 10:30 a.m. on Aug. 7, when the bomb went off, he was with her at the Nairobi airport trying to get her sick father on a plane home.
There have been accusations that a fundamentalist clique within the Comoros government might shelter terrorists.
Critics note that the ``hit list'' for local politicians found in Fazil's house called for killing President Taki's political opponents, but not him.
And local journalists were surprised to hear that Fazil got to the airport late but boarded the plane in only 15 minutes, as if someone had cleared his way.
Moussa, the president's top adviser, called the accusations ridiculous and said they emanated from political rivals and separatists.
The government, he said, first heard from the FBI on Aug. 29, a week after Fazil's departure.
Fundi Twawilou said he still felt like a father to Fazil and did not believe him guilty.
``Abdallah knows good from bad,'' he said.
``He knows that for planting a bomb that kills 250 innocent people, a Muslim would go straight to hell.''
The man accused of directing the bomb attack on the American Embassy in Kenya came of age in this impoverished Indian Ocean archipelago, a land where gifted teen-agers leave home to enroll in the radical Islamic academies of Libya, Sudan and Pakistan.
A tightly wound, brilliant student of the Koran who was thrown out of religious school for caning a lazy pupil hard enough to draw blood, Abdallah Mohammed Fazul set out for Pakistan 11 years ago, at age 15, to continue his education.
Sometime over the next few years, American authorities assert, he fell under the sway of terrorists waging what they call a holy war against the United States.
He was transformed into a killer who could coolly execute a bombing that left 250 people dead.
He is still at large after being indicted in the United States under an alias, Haroun Fazil, which he apparently used in Kenya.
As the object of a worldwide manhunt, he has a $2 million reward on his head.
The stark portrait of him as a terrorist baffles his wife, his Koran teacher and relatives in Comoros, a country with a relatively liberal Muslim character.
Even relatives who admit that he had a darker side say his religious fervor seemed limited to mundane things like animosity to television and threats to chase family members into the street if he caught them drinking beer.
Nearly two months after the bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, a picture of those charged in the case is slowly emerging.
They lived in different countries, labored in various professions but shared a devotion to radical Islam and a striking ability to keep family and friends in the dark about what American prosecutors say were their true activities.
Comoran officials express embarrassment that Fazil has turned the world's eyes on them.
But they say he is a true product of the forces that shaped his tropical nation _ poverty, Islam, racism and French colonialism.
He is one of thousands of young Comorans who have been forced by the lack of higher education to leave these strange and beautiful islands, where the world's largest volcanic crater meets startling aquamarine waves, where huge bats flit between the palm trees by day and the moon glows vividly at night, especially during power blackouts.
They study far away, in harsh desert lands where the path to holy martyrdom and the path to a bit of cash for a suffering family back home are the same: Join the legions of the Islamic Jihad.
The indictments filed so far suggest that Fazil was no ordinary legionnaire, but a highly intelligent, natural leader who played a central role in the bomb plot.
His wife's extended family lives in a yellow cinder-block building behind a one-room Islamic school on an alley paved only with sharp pumice.
They graciously welcomed two journalists into their threadbare rooms, offered coffee and talked for three hours.
His wife, a first cousin who married him five years ago and lived with him in Sudan and Kenya, called him a hard-working computer student and said he sometimes disappeared for weeks at a time.
His big brother said he had been a gentle, sometimes boastful child who could ``smurf-dance like Michael Jackson'' and never said anything about hating America.
When pressed, those who knew him said in so many words that they did not know him very well.
His siblings did not see him for years at a time, his wife does not expect a message even though he has been gone more than a month, and his old teachers say he never visited.
Each said, ``He has no friends I know of.''
According to the FBI, Fazil headed the Kenya cell of Al Qaeda, the terror network founded by Osama bin Laden, an exiled Saudi businessman.
It says Fazil rented the room where the bomb was assembled and drove the white pickup that guided it to the embassy.
On Aug. 14, a week after the Nairobi blast, he flew here.
He visited relatives and his local mosque.
On Aug. 22, Fazil took a flight to Dubai.
He had a ticket onward to Pakistan, but it went unused, and he disappeared.
His family says he left without explaining, as was his custom, and they drove him to the airport.
Tipped off by Nairobi telephone records that showed calls to a Moroni number, investigators descended on the family home on Sept. 2.
The Comoran gendarmes were accompanied by FBI agents with pistols and radio headsets, ``just like Delta Force'' said an uncle.
They took his brother, Omar, as well as his wife, Halima Badroudine Fazul, 22, and sister-in-law, Nabatte Fazul, 19, in for questioning.
They also seized two computers, diskettes, a camera, CDs and tapes, old letters, passports and birth certificates, two Korans, piles of old Newsweek and Time magazines and Kenyan newspapers, rubber stamps, most of the clothing of the family's men and some belonging to women and children.
The day of the search ended badly.
``The FBI behaved correctly _ they were not threatening,'' said Halima Fazul.
``But the Comoran gendarmes tipped my father out of bed to search it, even though he had a catheter in him.''
They banged on the ceiling over his bed with their gun butts, she said.
On her way back from the police station that evening, she was told that her father, who had been suffering from a bleeding ulcer, was collapsing.
She ran, stumbling in the dark.
``He took my hand and said, `Ah, Halima, you're back,''' and died, she said.
When asked about that later, a prosecutor and a ranking gendarme both shrugged, saying they were unaware that the older man had heart trouble.
No complete listing of the evidence against Fazil has been issued _ some may still be being tested by the FBI _ but threads can be pieced together from interviews.
Fazil had passports or ID documents from countries that he is not a citizen of, apparently including Kenya and France, and stamps for forging others.
The Kenyan newspapers he had kept were mostly about the bombing, an investigator said.
There was a list of prominent Comorans who would have to be killed to make way for fundamentalist rule.
Investigators also found a letter he wrote in 1991, when he was 19, to his brother Omar, then 24, in which he boasted that he had been trained to use explosives and fire machine guns.
nn 	Asked his reaction, Omar Fazul, an English teacher, said: ``I was impressed _ but I considered it childish.
I thought he was boasting.
I didn't believe him.''
Omar Fazul said he never discussed religion, politics or military service with his brother.
``We talk only about family problems,'' he said.
``It has never been proved to me that my brother is an Islamist.
He wears jeans and boots.''
Fazil was born in 1973, the youngest of six, just before his parents separated.
He began Koranic studies at 4 with an uncle and at 7 began studying with a professional teacher, Fundi Twawilou Abdulfateh.
By the age of 9, he knew the Koran by heart and was giving religious instructions on the radio.
He was so smart, another relative said, that he was in third grade while his older sister was in first.
He played soccer and the flute and could do a standing flip.
As a teen-ager, he showed off with kung-fu fighting sticks and called himself James Bond.
He also had moments of rage.
He got into a fistfight with a teacher at his French public school, and slammed younger students down in their chairs when they failed at Koran recital.
``He sometimes had a strange attitude,'' Fundi Twawilou said.
``On the soccer field, he would provoke fights with bigger guys.
When that guy would go to beat him, he would run away.
So Omar, his brother, would be beaten.
But Omar has crippled feet, so Abdallah would return to fight for him.''
At age 11, he cut another pupil's ear.
Asked to leave, he studied for two years with Fundi Mohammed Ali, an older teacher, who remembers him as ``brilliant, respectful to others, deeply religious and very calm.''
At 14, he switched to a school run by Fundi Soidiki Mbapandza, one of the leading Islamic fundamentalists here, before leaving for Pakistan.
Outside the tin walls of that school compound, girls and young women enter through one door, carefully avoiding eye contact with the opposite sex, while male students glower aggressively at visitors.
Fundi Soidiki, who was questioned by the police, declined several requests for an interview.
The most militant strains of fundamentalism are almost unknown in Comoros.
The islands are 99 percent Sunni Muslim, and many men wear ankle-length shirts and Arab-style caps, while almost all women wrap scarves around their bodies, legs and heads.
But the atmosphere is relaxed _ the scarves often merely adorn Western dresses and few women hide their faces or hair.
Speaking of Fazil, Justice Minister Mohammed Abdou Mmadi said, ``Mr. Fazul learned a different culture abroad.
It would be impossible for a Comoran who grew up here to become a terrorist.''
The islands are very poor, with a gross domestic product of $470 per person.
Tourists _ mostly divers _ are few, and 80 percent of the local people are subsistence farmers and fishermen.
Because scholarships to France have dried up, many accept the meager ones offered by religious colleges in Pakistan, Egypt, Sudan and Libya, where they are recruited by fundamentalists.
``There are thousands of Haroun Fazils all over the world, recruited into the foreign legion of Libya and the armies of Iran,'' warned Said Hilali Moussa, chief of President Abdoulkarim Taki's cabinet.
Many families get only one letter from their departed sons, said a tourism official.
It says they are safe, living in a hostel.
``Then they don't hear from them for years, and they they find out they are in the army.
Lots end up fighting in Afghanistan.''
Something like that happened to Fazil.
``When he came back from Pakistan,'' a relative said, ``he told his mother he wanted to go into the army.
She told him, `It is up to you.'''
After that he became more of a mystery.
He was trained, presumably in Afghanistan, and has lived in Sudan, Kenya and perhaps in Yemen.
He comes home only for short visits, never leaves an address and calls from pay phones.
Five years ago, on a brief visit, he went with his father to Moheli Island to meet his uncle for the first time.
His cousins Halima, 17, and Nabatte, 14, were there.
``We were eating, and not well dressed, so we were embarrassed,'' Halima Fazul recalled.
``We ran inside to change.''
At the end of the day, he had his father ask for her hand.
Mrs. Fazul used to go fully veiled, with only her eyes showing, relatives said, and neighbors in Kenya said the same thing.
But when she went out visiting in Comoros, she wore her scarf off her face and was unfazed when her young son pulled it off in front of male visitors.
Her husband used to wear the traditional long shirts but now wears trousers and sometimes a suit.
When teased about the Western dress by his father, a relative said, he pointed at his heart and replied: ``Proving you fear God is not in your clothes.
It's in here.''
He now has money, relatives said.
He sends some home, and last year paid half the cost for his mother to go to Paris for cancer treatment.
His wife cannot identify his boss or say exactly what he does, except work on computers.
``He goes away at 8 and comes back at 6,'' she said.
``I don't know what he does outside.''
She denied having heard of bin Laden before the blast and protested that her husband did not hate Americans.
She also gave him an alibi, saying that at 10:30 a.m. on Aug. 7, when the bomb went off, he was with her at the Nairobi airport trying to get her sick father on a plane home.
There have been accusations that a fundamentalist clique within the Comoros government might shelter terrorists.
Critics note that the ``hit list'' for local politicians found in Fazil's house called for killing President Taki's political opponents, but not him.
And local journalists were surprised to hear that Fazil got to the airport late but boarded the plane in only 15 minutes, as if someone had cleared his way.
Moussa, the president's top adviser, called the accusations ridiculous and said they emanated from political rivals and separatists.
The government, he said, first heard from the FBI on Aug. 29, a week after Fazil's departure.
Fundi Twawilou said he still felt like a father to Fazil and did not believe him guilty.
``Abdallah knows good from bad,'' he said.
``He knows that for planting a bomb that kills 250 innocent people, a Muslim would go straight to hell.''
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said Wednesday that one of the men accused of conspiring to bomb the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August had met earlier with Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind of the attacks, and ``asked him for a mission.''
The reported meeting between bin Laden and the accused man, Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al'Owhali, which had not previously been described, is the strongest allegation offered so far to link bin Laden to the attacks, in which more than 250 people died.
The meeting, which prosecutors said took place in 1996, is reported in a new 48-page indictment of Al-'Owhali and three others that a federal grand jury in Manhattan returned Wednesday.
It shows how prosecutors are continuing to build the circumstantial case that bin Laden, a Saudi businessman in exile, was behind the embassy bombings and other attacks against Americans stationed abroad in the 1990s.
The prosecutors did not indicate bin Laden's response to the offer; he is not charged in the new indictment.
The indictment does not indicate whether prosecutors have any evidence that bin Laden directly ordered the bombings, or whether they may argue that he inspired a group of followers to carry out the attacks.
Bin Ladin has called for attacks on U.S. and other Western interests.
Nonetheless, in issuing the new charges against men suspected of being bin Laden's associates, the government also declared more concretely than previously that bin Laden has been a major backer of terrorism groups worldwide.
Its list of terrorist groups includes Al Jihad in Egypt and the Islamic Group, which is led by Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who was convicted in 1996 in the plot to blow up landmarks in New York City.
The indictment asserted that bin Laden's organization, Al Qaeda, worked on its own and through Al Jihad, Islamic Group and others, which ``operated under its umbrella.''
The authorities also gave their first account of what they called bin Laden's network of businesses and front companies in Sudan that he allegedly used to raise money to support terrorism and to provide cover for the acquisition of explosives, weapons and chemicals, and the travel of his associates.
In a rare public statement about the August bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa, the FBI said Friday that two vehicles had been used in the attack on the embassy here.
The FBI also indicated that it had learned the identities of new suspects in the blast here, and that they are at large.
They were in a Suzuki Samurai, one of the two vehicles identified Friday, investigators said.
Two vehicles were also used in the bombing of the embassy in Nairobi, according to indictments that have been handed down.
One carried the bomb, the other guided the first vehicle through the streets of Nairobi to the embassy.
Investigators are pursuing the theory that the modus operandi was the same here.
One of the vehicles used in the blast here was an Atlas refrigeration truck made by Nissan, with a silver-colored cargo box and white or beige cab, the FBI and the Tanzania Criminal Investigation Division said at a news conference Friday afternoon.
This was the vehicle that investigators now believe carried the bomb, which killed 11 people and wounded at least 86.
The driver of the vehicle, who has not been identified, died in the attack, according to investigators.
The simultaneous blast in Nairobi killed more than 250, including 12 Americans.
Three people have been indicted in New York in connection with the attacks, which the Clinton administration has charged were masterminded by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile who lives in Afghanistan.
Friday's development should put to rest earlier reports that a water tanker, which regularly delivered water to the embassy here, had carried the bomb, an investigator said.
The refrigeration truck followed the water tanker into the compound, according to a U.S. security official.
It is not known how the refrigeration truck, a 1987 Nissan, penetrated the embassy compound here without being adequately searched.
At Friday's news conference, FBI Agent Ken Maxwell read a brief statement and declined to take any questions.
The head of Tanzania's Criminal Investigation Division, Adadi Rajabu, read a similar statement in Swahili, and also declined to take questions.
The second vehicle was a Suzuki Samurai, a small jeep popular in East Africa.
It had been ``utilized by suspects thus far identified,'' Maxwell said.
He did not say how it had been used or who the suspects were.
Tanzania has charged two men in connection with the bombing, Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed and Rashid Saleh Hemed.
For reasons that are not clear, the Clinton administration has not sought to extradite either of these men, even though it has brought other suspects back to the United States, where they have been indicted.
A diplomat here said the United States did not consider the evidence against Ahmed to be very strong.
Since the bombings, the FBI and their counterparts here and in Kenya have made few public statements.
Friday's news conference was for the purpose of issuing an appeal to the Tanzanian public to come forth with any information about the vehicles, an indication that while the investigators feel they have made ``a significant amount of progress,'' as Maxwell said Friday, they are also stymied.
Urged on by the Clinton administration, Saudi Arabia's top intelligence official met privately with the leader of the Taliban in late September to try to persuade Afghanistan to deport Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile suspected of masterminding the August bombings of two American embassies in East Africa, according to U.S. and Arab officials.
Just weeks after the United States launched a cruise-missile strike against bin Laden's terrorist training camps in Afghanistan, Prince Turki bin Faisal, chief of Saudi intelligence, sat down with Mullah Mohammed Omar, leader of the Taliban's Supreme Council, and asked him to end his protection for bin Laden and hand him over, Arab officials said.
The Taliban, the Islamic movement that controls most of Afghanistan, refused.
Their recalcitrance in the face of Turki's personal request finally prompted Saudi Arabia, one of the Taliban's most important financial sponsors and allies, to downgrade its diplomatic ties with the group.
American officials say they are supporting diplomatic efforts to persuade the Taliban to deport bin Laden.
``Achieving the expulsion of bin Laden and bringing him to justice is something we are actively pursuing,'' said a State Department official.
In their effort to persuade Afghanistan to deport bin Laden, State Department officials also have spoken to Taliban representatives themselves and have sought the intercession of Pakistan, the only other major ally of Afghanistan in the region.
They have also, said an Arab official, talked to members of bin Laden's family in Saudi Arabia.
If Afghanistan does turn over bin Laden to Saudi Arabia, it is possible that bin Laden might be tried there, rather than in the United States.
If he were to be handed over to the Saudis and brought back to Saudi Arabia, one Arab official said, he could face swift execution.
Administration officials say they want him to face trial in the United States.
They say they asked the Saudis to urge the Taliban only to deport bin Laden.
Senior U.S. officials said they were not negotiating with the Taliban, but simply repeating the message that they should get rid of bin Laden.
``We've certainly urged, in public and private, all those who have influence with the Taliban, that it is our strong view bin Laden should be expelled and brought to justice,'' a White House spokesman said.
``We will certainly continue our multi-pronged strategy of combating bin Laden's network.''
Clinton administration officials said the new diplomatic effort did not preclude further military action against bin Laden and his terrorist network.
Officials said the Aug. 20 cruise missile attack was intended to break up the network and perhaps kill bin Laden.
Since then, the FBI and other law-enforcement and intelligence agencies say they are continuing to work with other nations to arrest as many of bin Laden's operatives as possible.
Bin Laden already faces criminal charges in the United States under a sealed indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in New York.
Pressing the Taliban is part of a broad effort to damage the bin Laden network, officials say.
``Our tactics may have changed, but our strategy of putting him out of action remains the same,'' said a senior American official.
``This is another way of trying to deal with the problem.''
But critics outside of government say it also suggests ambivalence among administration officials over how best to deal with the radical Islamic group that now controls most of Afghanistan.
``There has been a gap between our interests in Afghanistan and the level of our attention to the need for a strategy,'' said Zalmay Khalilzad, an Afghan expert at Rand Corp. ``A rogue state could emerge there, so we either need to pay attention now, or later.''
The Saudi role in trying to extricate bin Laden from Afghanistan has been a murky one, complicated by Islamic politics and the longstanding alliance between the Saudis and the Taliban.
But the Saudi request to the Taliban for bin Laden represents a significant shift.
Previously, the Saudis had made it clear that they did not want bin Laden brought back to Saudi Arabia, for fear that he could be a martyr figure to Saudi dissidents.
More broadly, U.S. officials say they have been frustrated by the Saudis' refusal to cooperate fully on terrorism investigations in the past, especially in the case of the 1996 bombing of the American military barracks at Khobar Towers in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
But now, what administration officials say is the clear evidence of his involvement in the East African bombings, as well as a growing belief among Saudi officials that bin Laden poses a threat to their government, seems to have prompted a change in their strategy.
And, while he is not currently under indictment for any crimes in Saudi Arabia, Arab and U.S officials now say they have evidence linking him to the 1995 car bombing of a military facility in Riyadh in which American servicemen were killed.
Bin Laden, who was stripped of his Saudi citizenship in 1994, would face ``swift'' action if he were brought back to Saudi Arabia, said one Arab official.
Now, even bin Laden's wealthy Saudi family is cooperating with the United States and Saudi Arabia on how to bring him to heel, the Arab official said.
The bin Laden family made a fortune in the construction industry.
``U.S. officials, after Saudi Arabia blessed it, have talked to members of the bin Laden family,'' the Arab official said.
After Taliban officials repeatedly said they would consider turning over bin Laden if they were presented with evidence against him, Arab officials familiar with the matter say that Prince Turki presented evidence to the Taliban of bin Laden's involvement in terrorism, but it made no difference.
Evidence was also presented by Bill Richardson, former chief delegate to the United Nations, when he visited Afghanistan earlier this year.
But Clinton administration officials, fearing that his return to Saudi Arabia could lead to trouble for the Saudi regime, stress they do not want the Saudis to have bin Laden brought back to their country.
And they note that the United States does not have an extradition treaty with Saudi Arabia.
The Clinton administration is still determined to have bin Laden put on trial in the United States, they said.
``We don't have a policy on whether we would accept bin Laden being brought to justice in a third country, we haven't crossed that bridge yet,'' one administration official said.
``But Saudi Arabia would not be the place where we would want him to go.''
Abdul Hakeem Mujahid, the Taliban's ambassador designate to the United Nations, confirmed in an interview that his government's discussions with Turki over bin Laden had been ``disappointing,'' but argued that Afghanistan's unwillingness to oust its ``guest'' would not damage long-term relations between Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia.
He added that his government would be willing to try bin Laden in Islamic court in Afghanistan if there was ``solid'' evidence against him.
Several months after the bombing of the World Trade Center in February 1993, one of the suspects tried to bargain with federal prosecutors in New York, offering inside information about the bomb plot in exchange for a lighter sentence.
The deal never materialized, and the defendant was eventually found guilty and sentenced to life in prison.
But the details he offered in that secret meeting about his Brooklyn-based circle of Arab militants are resonating today in another terrorism case.
The accused bomber told prosecutors that he had twice turned to a Texas acquaintance named Wadih el Hage to buy weapons for his Brooklyn associates.
Last month, el Hage was arrested on charges of being part of the Osama bin Laden terror network that is suspected of the bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania on Aug. 7.
It is not clear how federal investigators followed up the tip about el Hage that they received in 1993.
But after the embassy bombings, it is evident that they are ascribing new significance to el Hage's contacts with the Brooklyn militants who figured not only in the World Trade Center case, but also in the assassination of Rabbi Meir Kahane in 1990 and a conspiracy to blow up the United Nations and other New York landmarks in 1993.
Indeed, the government recently asserted for the first time that the roots of bin Laden's organization could be traced, in part, to a sparsely furnished office on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn that was called Alkifah Refugee Center and had for many years been a gathering place for that same fringe group of terrorists.
Prosecutors have not said what role, if any, bin Laden is supposed to have played in the activities of Alkifah Center.
Nor have they said how the center, which has been closed for about five years, relates to his global campaign to attack Americans overseas.
But in the government's version so far, bin Laden's far-flung network is presented as a tapestry of personal relationships between men of different nationalities and backgrounds who share his determination to rid the Islamic world of American influence.
In the United States, prosecutors now suggest, such relationships evolved from Alkifah Refugee Center.
In the mid-1980s the strip of Arab restaurants and Islamic bookstores on Atlantic Avenue, between Third and Fourth streets, was the first port of call for many immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa.
Notices posted in the shops advertised jobs, rooms for rent and religious activities for Arabic-speaking newcomers.
Alkifah Center, in those years, was a neighborhood hub.
It started out as a desk in Al Farooq Mosque around 1986 and then moved into a small apartment in a building a few doors away at 566 Atlantic Ave., above what is now a perfume factory, with just enough room for a desk, a few chairs, a phone and a fax machine.
The center's stated purpose was to raise money and recruit fighters to help the U.S.-backed Afghan mujahedeen, who rebelled against the Communist government in Afghanistan after an invasion by the Soviet Union in 1979.
People in the neighborhood who remember Alkifah Center say it appeared to be a shoestring operation, although court papers suggest that tens of thousands of dollars flowed through its bank accounts in its heyday in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
It was this ramshackle office that the government says evolved into the American outpost of bin Laden's international terrorist organization.
The center was set up by Mustafa Shalabi, an Egyptian immigrant.
As his former neighbors recall him, Shalabi was infused with the same religious fervor for the Afghan cause that galvanized many young Muslims who regarded it as a holy war to liberate a Muslim country from Communist domination.
One of those who answered the call to fight in Afghanistan was Mahmud Abouhalima, who was active in militant Islamic movements in his native Egypt before moving to West Germany in 1981 and to New York four years later.
Abouhalima would later become a well-known figure in New York as one of the men accused in the World Trade Center bombing.
Shortly after his arrest in that case, he met with government investigators without his lawyer and provided a detailed account of Alkifah Refugee Center and its internecine rivalries.
He recounted his brief stint with the mujahedeen in Afghanistan and told of traveling with a Palestinian man he knew as Mohammed Odeh to Peshawar, in northern Pakistan, the staging area for the Afghan rebels.
Abouhalima said they had spent two and a half months in separate training camps, learning how to use AK-47 assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenade launchers.
Later, they joined a militia unit and fought against Soviet forces with the American-financed mujahedeen.
For reasons that remain unclear, prosecutors rebuffed Abouhalima's offer of cooperation.
But his mention of Odeh is intriguing in light of more recent events.
A Palestinian man with a similar name and background, Mohammed Saddiq Odeh, has been charged with driving the truck that delivered the bomb in the attack on the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.
He has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial in New York.
Federal officials declined to say whether the Odeh charged in the embassy attack this year is the same Palestinian whose name surfaced five years ago.
nn 	In his 1993 statement to investigators, Abouhalima made no mention of bin Laden, although bin Laden is known to have worked in Afghanistan and Pakistan during the war years distributing official Saudi aid money for the mujahedeen.
Not long after Abouhalima returned to New York in late 1988, the Afghan war began to wind down.
The Soviet Union withdrew the last of its troops in 1989.
Two years later, the United States agreed to stop supplying arms to fractious Afghan warlords, and Afghanistan descended into civil war.
Many of the Arab men who had gone to fight, including bin Laden, stayed on but turned their religious fury against secular Arab governments and, ultimately, the U.S. military presence in the Persian Gulf and in Africa.
The turmoil in postwar Afghanistan echoed in Brooklyn, where Shalabi kept Alkifah Center open.
With the arrival in Brooklyn in 1990 of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric who was later convicted of conspiring to blow up New York landmarks, Abouhalima said, the regulars at Alkifah began to quarrel over money, political direction and leadership.
It was around that time that Abouhalima said he had first met el Hage, a Lebanese-born naturalized American citizen, at an Islamic conference in Oklahoma City.
Just how close the two men became is not clear.
Abouhalima's lawyer in his World Trade Center trial, Hassen Ibn Abdellah, said, ``That case is over, and I know nothing of the government's information or their sources.''
But el Hage was familiar with several of the Arab immigrants associated with Alkifah Center, say prosecutors and the account that Abouhalima provided investigators.
A federal prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, said in court last month, for example, that el Hage had a relationship with El Sayyid A. Nosair, the Egyptian immigrant convicted on federal charges in slaying of Kahane.
He did not elaborate.
Abouhalima, who told investigators that he had been in charge of protecting Sheik Abdel Rahman during the cleric's stay in the United States, told investigators that he had gone at least twice to el Hage to buy guns.
Abouhalima said he obtained a 9-millimeter handgun from el Hage in 1990 for use by the cleric's bodyguards.
Abouhalima also told investigators that he later gave el Hage $4,000 to buy handguns and AK-47s to defend his associates from the Jewish Defense League in New York, an organization founded by Kahane.
Abouhalima said el Hage had been unable to obtain the weapons and returned most of the money.
The timing of the transaction was not made clear.
The government cited the weapons transaction in a court hearing last month to persuade a federal magistrate to deny bail to el Hage.
Fitzgerald, the prosecutor, said el Hage had acknowledged dealings with Abouhalima.
``The defendant has admitted that while in Texas he made efforts to obtain firearms for Mahmud Abouhalima,'' Fitzgerald said.
``His claim is that after purchasing the firearms, Mr. Abouhalima failed to pick them up.''
Abouhalima told investigators of other contacts with el Hage.
He said that el Hage called him from Texas in early 1991 and said Shalabi wanted him to come to New York to help resolve a conflict within Alkifah Center.
At the time, Shalabi's leadership was under fire from dissidents within his circle, including Abouhalima.
El Hage did come to New York.
A short time later, Shalabi was found slain in his Brooklyn apartment.
No one has been charged, and the crime remains unsolved.
Abouhalima said he and el Hage had met one more time in Al Farooq Mosque on Atlantic Avenue, a few doors from Alkifah Center.
The topic of discussion, he said, was Shalabi's troubles and his recent killing.
Prosecutors say that by 1994, el Hage moved his wife and children to Sudan, where neighbors said they knew him as the director of Africa Help, a private aid organization.
But the government said he was the private secretary to bin Laden, who by then had relocated from Afghanistan to Sudan.
Later that year, the government said, el Hage moved to Kenya, where he shared a house for a time with a man named Haroun Fazil and helped bin Laden set up some of his front companies in Africa.
Fazil is accused of playing a role in the August embassy bombings in Africa.
The government appears to have been tracking el Hage for at least a year before the embassy bombings.
In September of last year, he was pointedly questioned by federal agents investigating bin Laden's group.
El Hage, who moved back to the United States in 1997, has pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy to kill Americans and of lying to federal agents.
In court his lawyer, Bruce McIntyre, denied that his client had any connection to terrorist activities.
McIntyre could not be reached for further comment.
These days, Arab immigrants still congregate along the little strip of shops on Atlantic Avenue, where Arab food and novelties are sold alongside Islamic books.
A few thousand pray at Al Farooq Mosque at the main Friday prayers, but it no longer has a reputation as a hotbed of radical Islamic activity.
Most of the men who were drawn to Alkifah Center in its turbulent days have melted quietly back into their communities, say people in the neighborhood familiar with the center's history.
``In 1994 this mosque finally settled down,'' said Abdulhakim Ali Mohamed, the American-born religious scholar who became the imam, or leader, of the mosque three years ago.
No one is permitted to misuse the mosque to preach politics or hate, he added.
``If there's anything to say,'' Mohamed said, ``I'll say it.''
Nine months before the attack on the American Embassy here, U.S. intelligence officials received a detailed warning that Islamic radicals were plotting to blow up the building, according to Kenyan and American officials.
The warning forecast the Aug. 7 bombing in several particulars, the officials said.
It came from an Egyptian man who American officials now believe was involved in the simultaneous terrorist assaults on the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
The Egyptian, Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed, is now in jail in Tanzania, charged by local prosecutors with bombing the embassy there.
Since the bombings, the State Department has maintained that it received no specific warnings about threats to its embassies in East Africa.
But late on Thursday, a spokesman acknowledged that the CIA had sent the State Department two reports about Ahmed that prompted the embassy in Kenya to step up security for several weeks.
When no attack materialized, the embassy's precautions returned to normal.
No further steps were taken to improve the building's physical security.
Disclosure of the warning raises new questions about the State Department's protection of the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which did not meet the department's own minimum standards for security.
Until now, department officials have insisted that the embassies faced only a minimal threat from terrorists.
In the days after the bombings, the administration acknowledged that it had spurned requests from the American ambassador in Kenya, Prudence Bushnell, to move the entire embassy to a safer location.
The State Department would not say whether her cables mentioned Ahmed's warning.
According to American officials, Ahmed walked into the Nairobi embassy last November and told American intelligence officials that he knew of a group that was planning to detonate a bomb-laden truck inside the diplomats' underground parking garage.
In a separate interrogation by Kenyan intelligence officials, which was relayed to the Americans, Ahmed said he had already taken surveillance photos of the embassy for the attack, which was to involve several vehicles and stun grenades, Kenyan officials said.
Analysts at the CIA were unable to link Ahmed to any terrorist group but they nonetheless sent two reports last November about his statements to various government agencies.
The reports, American officials said, included several caveats.
The CIA said that a foreign intelligence service that cooperates with the agency believed that Ahmed was a fabricator of information.
In the reports, CIA analysts said that they could not rule out the possibility that Ahmed's threats were serious.
But they said that the threats might also be a sophisticated ploy by terrorists to observe and then counter the defenses the embassy would take against a possible attack.
After Ahmed appeared at the embassy, American officials alerted their Kenyan counterpars, who questioned the Egytian and then deported him.
Soon after, Ahmed made his way to Tanzania where, American officials now believe, he participated in the Aug. 7 bombing of the embassy that left 11 people dead.
The embassy attack in Kenya unfolded that same day much as Ahmed had said it would: A team of terrorists using two vehicles attempted to drive an explosives-packed truck into the parking garage.
One of the attackers tossed stun grenades to frighten off the locally hired security guards.
When an exiting car blocked their access to the garage, the attackers set off the bomb.
A Clinton administration official acknowledged that the embassy in Kenya had received a specific warning about an attack.
``It is embarrassing,'' this official said, quickly adding: ``It is tragic.''
Asked why the embassy took few steps to improve its security after the warning, he said: ``That's the 64-million-dollar question.''
Other officials defended the government's handling of the case, noting that American intelligence is deluged with warnings about terrorist plots, most of which prove groundless.
Thus far, Tanzanian authorities have not allowed Ahmed to be interviewed, and it was unclear what motivated him to alert authorities about a plot in which he appears to have played a role.
He told the Kenyans that in the past he had provided authorities with information about Islamic radicals because he wanted to see them arrested and rehabilitated rather than caught committing a crime for which they would be executed.
Ahmed has said he is innocent of the charges and his lawyer, Abdul Mwengela, said his client's information about the bombings stemmed solely from a conversation he had overheard the previous year in a Nairobi hotel.
A Tanzanian court refused to release Ahmed on bail this week and ruled that FBI agents would be permitted to interrogate him.
Tanzanian investigators suspect he was a central figure in the plot.
They are now examining whether Ahmed drove one of the vehicles used in the Dar es Salaam bombing and whether the 400 pounds of explosives used in both blasts came into Tanzania in a shipment of rice imported by one of his companies.
The Clinton administration has not sought to extradite Ahmed from Tanzania event though federal law permits the United States to bring charges against anyone who attempts or conspires to murder Americans anywhere in the world.
American prosecutors have already brought to the United States several other people accused of complicity in the bombings or of having ties to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile who American investigators have identified as the mastermind of the attacks.
The American Embassy in Dar es Salaam declined to answer any questions about Ahmed and why Washington was not seeking his extradition.
American diplomats in Tanzania, speaking on the condition of anonymity, suggested the prosecution was being left to the Tanzanians because there were no American victims.
A White House spokesman said the case was appropriately handled and that the United States had no plans to extradite Mustafa because the Tanzanians had expressed interest in trying him.
Several non-American diplomats in the region speculated that the United States is allowing the Tanzanians to try Ahmed because they fear his trial in America might bring to light his dealings with American authorities and other Western intelligence services.
</P>
Philippine Airlines (PAL) experienced a crisis in 1998.
Unable to make payments on a $2.1 billion debt, it was faced by a pilot's strike in June and the region's currency problems which reduced passenger numbers and inflated costs.
On September 23 PAL shut down after the ground crew union turned down a settlement which it accepted two weeks later.
PAL resumed domestic flights on October 7 and international flights on October 26.
Resolution of the basic financial problems was elusive, however, and as of December 18 PAL was still $2.2 billion in debt and losing close to $1 million a day.
Starting in May 1998, Philippine Airlines (PAL) laid off 5000 of its 13,000  workers.
A 3-week pilots' strike in June and a currency crisis that reduced  passenger numbers made payments on PAL's $2 billion debt impossible.
President  Estrada brokered an agreement to suspend collective bargaining for 10 years in  exchange for 20% of PAL stock and union seats on its board.
The large ground crew  union initially voted no.
After PAL shut down operations for 13 days starting  Sept. 23rd, leaving much of the country without air service and foreign carriers  flying some domestic routes, 61% voted yes.
Unions agreed to some employee cuts  with separation benefits.
Philippines Airlines (PAL), Asia's oldest airline, devastated in 1998 by pilot and ground worker strikes and with a rising $2.1 billion debt, stopped all operations for 13 days.
A 10-year, no-strike agreement was finally ratified when the government began using foreign carriers for domestic flights.
PAL resumed domestic flights on October 7 and international flights slowly over the next weeks.
This shutdown had been another blow to the debt ridden national flag carrier.
Following the strike, efforts to revive the airlines met more obstacles.
Cathay Pacific Airways would only help if the payroll, including 200 pilots hired during the pilot strike, were slashed.
The fate of Asia's oldest airline, PAL, is uncertain.
Negotiations with Cathay  Pacific Airways to infuse $100 million dollars into the company collapsed when  PAL Chairman Tan refused to agree to major job cuts and to relinquish management  control to Cathay.
PAL is buried under a $2.2 billion dollar debt it cannot repay  and $1 million a day losses.
A replacement investor is unlikely and President  Estrada, though supported by Tan in the election, has rejected a government  bailout.
PAL's financial troubles were exacerbated by a two-week shutdown in  September due to a dispute with its largest union.
President Joseph Estrada on Saturday urged militant unionists at Philippine Airlines to accept a vote by workers approving a 10-year no-strike deal to revive the debt-laden airline.
On Friday, about 61 percent of the members of PAL's largest union accepted the proposal to suspend collective bargaining in exchange for 20 percent of the company's stock and seats on its board.
Hardline union members say they will file charges questioning the legality of agreement, but Estrada urged them to accept the referendum results.
``It's very clear that majority have agreed to it and voted freely,'' said Estrada during his weekly radio program.
``Everybody has to sacrifice.
Labor and management should cooperate at this time of crisis.''
Following the outcome of the referendum, PAL said it can resume flights to 14 domestic destinations next Wednesday and to nine international destinations within several weeks.
It was the second time that the 6,700 members of PAL's largest union have voted on the rescue plan.
Last week, they rejected the proposal, forcing the airline to shut down and leaving much of the country without air service.
Estrada assured workers that he will defend their rights during the 10-year CBA suspension.
The Philippine president also assured the International Labor Organization the proposed suspension is only a temporary measure and would help the government cope with the Asian crisis.
``It is not true that I am anti-labor,'' he said.
``This is only a temporary and will not deny workers' rights.''
The union had been sharply split over the proposal, with militant members saying a suspension of the bargaining agreement would violate workers' rights.
Many union members had believed the government would not allow the 57-year-old flag carrier to close.
But when government-enlisted foreign carriers began flying some domestic routes on Monday, union leaders reversed their position and agreed to accept the management plan.
The agreement must be formally endorsed by workers, regulators and PAL's creditors.
Management said at least 2,000 workers will be recalled to handle domestic operations, and most of the airline's 8,600 current workers will be recalled once international flights are fully operational.
Asia's currency crisis hit shortly after PAL launched a dlrs 4 billion modernization program, greatly inflating the amount of money it must repay to overseas creditors.
It has been unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion of debt.
President Joseph Estrada said Saturday the financially troubled Philippine Airlines will resume its international flights on Sunday by flying him to Singapore where he will address the World Economic Forum.
Debt-laden PAL reopened Wednesday with domestic flights after a 13-day shutdown caused by disagreements with its largest labor union over a management recovery plan.
Speaking over his weekly radio program, Estrada also said Cathay Pacific and Northwest Airlines were interested in investing in the national carrier.
``It's either of the two,'' he said.
Earlier this week, Peter Foster, a regional manager of Cathay, said the company would soon decide whether to invest in PAL.
Foster said Cathay is ``taking a very close look'' at PAL but declined to comment what they have found or what stake they are considering.
PAL officials say Singapore Airlines is also interested in a possible investment.
PAL, which has been unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion in debt, was devastated by a pilots' strike in June and by the region's currency crisis, which reduced passenger numbers and inflated costs.
Estrada brokered an agreement between PAL majority owner and chairman, Lucio Tan, and its largest union that led to the reopening of the 57-year-old airline.
Under the accord, workers will suspend their collective bargaining agreement for 10 years in exchange for 20 percent ownership of the airline.
Leftist labor leaders say the agreement violates workers' rights and called Estrada anti-union.
The visit to Singapore would be Estrada's first foreign trip as president.
He will deliver the keynote address to the 7th East Asia Economic Summit sponsored by the World Economic Forum on Tuesday.
Estrada will also hold talks with Singapore Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong, Singaporean business leaders and members of the Filipino community.
Estrada said he is scheduled to hold a ``getting-to-know-you'' meeting with Indonesian President B. J. Habibie on Tuesday on Indonesia's Batam Island south of Singapore.
Presidential spokesman Jerry Barican said the discussions between the two leaders may include immigration and refugee problems near the two countries' common borders, as well as fishing and rights to other natural resources in the area.
The Philippine government is ready to give up its stake in ailing Philippine Airlines and will not infuse any additional capital if a new investor, possibly Cathay Pacific Airways, comes in, officials said Tuesday.
``Our objective is full privatization.
The government's policy is to be out of the company that is being privatized,'' Finance Secretary Edgardo Espiritu said.
The government owns 14 percent of PAL, mostly held by public financial institutions, pension funds and the defense forces.
PAL is negotiating with Cathay Pacific, which could buy up to 40 percent of the airline under Philippine law.
Cathay Pacific has said it wants management control of the Philippine flag carrier, which has been mired in debt and labor unrest.
A PAL official has said it is willing to give Cathay Pacific management control.
Several Manila newspapers reported Tuesday that Cathay Pacific also is demanding that the government divest its shareholdings in PAL before it will agree to conclude a deal with the airline.
PAL executive vice president Manolo Aquino said there was no such demand, adding that the government's shares in PAL will naturally be diluted once a deal is forged and Cathay Pacific puts in new capital.
President Joseph Estrada said he would agree to any setup in PAL as long as it remains the country's flag carrier.
``As long as PAL continues and as long as it remains the flag carrier of the country, so be it,'' he said.
PAL, Asia's oldest airline, has been unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion in debt after being devastated by a pilots' strike and by Asia's currency crisis.
PAL shut down its operations on Sept. 23 after the ground crew union turned down a management-proposed recovery plan that included a 10-year suspension of labor's collective bargaining agreement in exchange for 20 percent ownership of the airline.
Workers agreed to accept the plan nearly two weeks after the shutdown, and the airline resumed domestic flights Oct. 7 and international flights to the United States on Oct. 26.
PAL is to resume flights to Hong Kong and Tokyo on Wednesday.
It plans to restart flights to Singapore, Taipei, Fukuoka and Osaka in the next few weeks.
The number of labor strikes and lockouts in the Philippines has declined this year despite business difficulties caused by Asia's financial crisis, the labor department said Sunday.
The department said 712 strikes and lockouts have occurred so far, a drop of 14 percent compared to 827 in the same period last year.
The number of workers who joined the strikes also declined by 20 percent from more than 210,000 to 175,500.
Early mediation by labor officials contributed to an easing of labor unrest in the country, the department said in a statement.
The country, however, suffered one of its worst labor problems when flag carrier Philippine Airlines was forced to shut down Sept. 23 due to disputes with its largest labor union and mounting debts and losses, partly caused by the regional financial turmoil.
PAL laid off more than 3,000 employees at the height of its labor and financial troubles this year, the biggest single retrenchment in the Philippines.
PAL resumed domestic flights Oct. 7 and started restoring international flights last month after settling its labor problems.
It has since accepted an investment offer from Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific and the two airlines are drawing up a plan to rehabilitate the Philippine carrier.
Prospective investor Cathay Pacific Airways wants the number of employees at troubled Philippine Airlines to be slashed from more than 8,000 to 5,000 but PAL has not yet agreed, Finance Secretary Edgardo Espiritu said Monday.
PAL officials have accepted an investment offer from the Hong Kong-based carrier and the two companies are drawing up a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate PAL.
PAL's chairman and chief stockholder, Lucio Tan, wants to retain about 8,000 employees to avoid antagonizing the airline's labor unions, Espiritu said.
``That is the point of disagreement now because Cathay wants a larger retrenchment,'' Espiritu told reporters.
Cathay Pacific officials were not immediately available for comment.
Espiritu said Cathay Pacific may invest as much as dlrs 100 million in PAL but other foreign investors, including the International Finance Corp., the World Bank's investment arm, are interested in investing part of that amount.
PAL closed for nearly two weeks on Sept. 23 after failing to persuade its largest union to accept a management-proposed recovery plan under which its collective bargaining agreement would be suspended for 10 years in exchange for a 20 percent share of the company's stock.
The union later decided to accept the plan, allowing PAL to resume domestic flights on Oct. 7 and international flights later.
As part of the plan, the union agreed to allow an unspecified number of workers to be retrenched as long as the laid-off workers get separation benefits agreed by both sides.
In June, PAL was embroiled in a crippling three-week pilots' strike that brought the company close to financial ruin.
At the height of the strike, PAL laid off 5,000 of its 13,000 workers to minimize its losses.
PAL says it is unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion of debt due to mounting losses worsened by its labor problems and Asia's currency crisis.
Ailing Philippine Airlines and prospective investor Cathay Pacific Airways have clashed over the laying off of PAL workers, prompting PAL to revive talks with another foreign airline, an official said Tuesday.
PAL earlier accepted a preliminary investment offer from Cathay Pacific, and the companies announced Nov. 10 that they would draw up a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate the Philippine flag carrier.
President Joseph Estrada's executive secretary, Ronaldo Zamora, said the two airlines have disagreed on how many of PAL's more than 8,000 workers should be laid off to make the airline viable.
Finance Secretary Edgardo Espiritu said that Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific wants to trim PAL's work force to about 5,000, but PAL chairman and chief stockholder Lucio Tan did not want to cut the number of workers below 8,000 to avoid antagonizing the company's unions.
Cathay Pacific also wants to lay off about 200 PAL pilots, a proposal also opposed by Tan, Zamora said.
Tan wants to retain the 200 pilots because they stood by him when the majority of PAL's pilots staged a devastating strike in June.
Tan has gone to the United States to try to revive talks with Northwest Airlines, which earlier expressed interest in investing in PAL, Zamora said.
Zamora said Northwest was larger than Cathay Pacific ``and maybe its first action would not be to fire employees.''
PAL spokesman Rolando Estabillo did not comment on the reported disagreement but said negotiations between the two companies were continuing.
He said Cathay Pacific was still studying PAL's financial records.
Katherine Wang, a spokeswoman for Cathay Pacific in Hong Kong, said it has not asked PAL to lay off workers.
She said the companies must first reach agreement on Cathay Pacific's entry into PAL before such operational details can be discussed.
``Our view is that the manpower requirements of PAL are to be discussed over the long term.
Cathay Pacific has no definite plan as far as staffing is concerned,'' Wang said.
She declined to comment on Zamora's and Espiritu's statements and said Cathay Pacific's negotiations with PAL ``will still carry on.''
PAL closed for nearly two weeks on Sept. 23 after failing to persuade its largest union to accept a management-proposed recovery plan under which its collective bargaining agreement would be suspended for 10 years in exchange for a 20 percent share of the company's stock.
The union later decided to accept the plan, allowing PAL to resume domestic flights on Oct. 7 and international flights later.
As part of the plan, the union agreed to allow an unspecified number of workers to be retrenched as long as the laid-off workers get separation benefits agreed by both sides.
In June, PAL was embroiled in a crippling three-week pilots' strike that brought the company close to financial ruin.
At the height of the strike, PAL laid off 5,000 of its 13,000 workers to minimize its losses.
PAL says it is unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion of debt due to mounting losses worsened by its labor problems and Asia's currency crisis.
Cathay Pacific Airways said Wednesday it had pulled out of talks to buy a stake in ailing Philippine Airlines _ making the uncertain future at PAL even cloudier.
Philippine President Joseph Estrada said he would try to coax the two sides back together, but it was unclear whether Cathay was out of the picture for good.
``There is now a real risk of PAL going bust, and this time for real,'' said airline analyst John Hetherington of Paribas Asia Equity Ltd. ``PAL is back in the unfortunate position of finding a new suitor.''
But another industry expert suggested the talks between Hong Kong's flag carrier and PAL might still be ``pretty fluid.''
``This game has been going on for quite a while,'' said airline analyst Peter Tang at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd.
Cathay said it had withdrawn its bid to pour up to U.S. dlrs 100 million into debt-ridden PAL because of ``certain issues which could not be resolved,'' according to a statement from company secretary P.A. Moore.
Moore would not elaborate on the stumbling blocks.
But Philippine officials said Cathay and PAL had run into difficulties in two areas: who would manage PAL and how many workers would lose their jobs.
Cathay executives did not immediately return a reporter's telephone inquiries about whether they would consider fresh talks with PAL.
Cathay shares were little changed in trading Wednesday's on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Estrada appeared unwilling to give up on PAL, which stopped flying in a labor dispute in September but soon got back into the air.
``As much as PAL is the flag carrier, we should see to it that PAL will always fly.
If PAL will close down, so many businesses will be affected,'' Estrada said.
Meanwhile, PAL executive vice president Manolo Aquino said the carrier has been developing contingency plans to return to financial health without help from other airlines.
``It isn't a cause for concern,'' he told Dow Jones Newswires.
PAL will submit a plan to the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission by Dec. 7, the carrier's deadline for finding a way to make good on some U.S. dlrs 2.1 billion in debts that now are going unpaid, Aquino said.
Early Wednesday, Cathay had expressed dissatisfaction over the talks with PAL, saying it was ``not willing to continue negotiations with PAL in its current form.''
``We're very sad.
We tried very hard to make it work,'' Peter Foster, Cathay's regional manager for the Philippines and Taiwan, told The Associated Press.
Foster said the negotiations have been going on for six weeks.
PAL earlier accepted a preliminary investment offer from Cathay Pacific, and the companies announced Nov. 10 that they would draw up a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate PAL.
Estrada's executive secretary, Ronaldo Zamora, earlier said PAL's chairman and chief stockholder, Lucio Tan, had gone to the United States to try to resume negotiations with Northwest Airlines, one of PAL's prospective investors.
PAL closed for nearly two weeks on Sept. 23 after failing to persuade its largest union to accept a management-proposed recovery plan under which their collective bargaining agreement would be suspended for 10 years in exchange for a 20 percent share of the company.
The union later decided to accept the plan, allowing PAL to resume domestic and international flights in early October.
PAL says it is unable to pay all its debts due to mounting losses worsened by its labor problems and Asia's currency crisis.
Philippine Airlines said Thursday it will attempt to rebuild alone after Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific Airlines pulled out of talks on acquiring a stake in the ailing Philippine flag carrier.
PAL had hoped for an infusion of capital from another airline to keep it afloat and help it resume payments on dlrs 2.1 billion in debt.
Manolo Aquino, PAL's executive vice president, said the airline has prepared a ``stand alone'' rehabilitation plan it will submit next Monday to Manila's Securities and Exchange Commission.
``It does not provide for a foreign-airline partner but if there is one in the future, that will be an enhancement,'' he said in a statement.
Aquino said the plan includes the retention of 22 aircraft _ down from 54 _ and the restructuring of debt.
Cathay Pacific announced Wednesday that it has withdrawn its bid to pour up to dlrs 100 million into PAL because of ``certain issues which could not be resolved.''
Philippine officials said Cathay Pacific and PAL disagreed over who would manage PAL and how many of the more than 8,000 employees would lose their jobs.
PAL closed for nearly two weeks on Sept. 23 after failing to persuade its largest union to accept a management-proposed recovery plan under which their collective bargaining agreement would be suspended for 10 years in exchange for a 20 percent share of the company.
The union later decided to accept the plan, allowing PAL to resume domestic and international flights.
Aquino said he welcomed a statement by President Joseph Estrada earlier Thursday that Cathay Pacific is still willing to negotiate with PAL.
``Cathay management wrote me a letter that they are still available for another negotiation,'' Estrada said.
``So let us not lose hope.''
Estrada said he is awaiting the return from abroad of PAL Chairman Lucio Tan to determine if the talks can resume.
During the PAL shutdown, Cathay flew chartered domestic flights at the request of Estrada.
``We also owe it to Cathay,'' Estrada said.
``When I asked them to help ... they responded.
This in one way or another solved the problems of so many businesses that were affected.
So I think I can talk it over with them.''
PAL says it is unable to make payments on its debts because of mounting losses worsened by labor problems and Asia's currency crisis.
Christmas is a sacred holiday in the Philippines, and nowhere is that more evident than at the headquarters of Philippine Airlines.
Religious statues adorn executive offices, and signs throughout the building announce a holiday mass in the main lobby.
In these dark days, when its frazzled executives are struggling to keep the airline afloat, a mass seems entirely appropriate: One cannot help thinking that what the airline needs is divine intervention.
With $2.2 billion in debt, plunging revenues, and losses of close to $1 million a day, Asia's oldest airline, known as PAL, is in desperate shape.
When negotiations for Cathay Pacific Airways to acquire a stake collapsed earlier this month, several analysts said the airline's options were running out.
``The rescue effort is not just huge, it is astronomical,'' said Nicholas Ionides, a Singapore-based editor of Air Transport Intelligence, a news agency that covers the industry.
``The question is, Do you keep an airline like this alive for pride reasons?
My opinion is that they should just shut it down.''
But Philippine Airlines is not just another shipwreck of a company.
It is the nation's flag carrier, a state company until after the ouster of Ferdinand Marcos, when it was spun off to a group of investors led by Lucio Tan, an ethnic Chinese who traded on his ties to Marcos to amass one of the greatest fortunes in the Philippines.
The airline is now the crown jewel in Tan's empire.
Tan is a leading supporter of the new president of the Philippines, Joseph Estrada, not only contributing to his campaign but giving him the use of his planes.
When a labor dispute prompted Tan to shut down the 57-year-old airline in September, provoking tears from nostalgic Filipinos, it was Estrada who brokered an agreement that got the planes flying again.
``For Estrada, it's a mark of political prestige to save the airline, and Lucio Tan knows it,'' said Alexander Magno, president of the Foundation for Economic Freedom, a research organization in Manila.
In the murky world of Asian business, where friendships often count more than solvency, Philippine Airlines would seem to be the classic candidate for a government bailout.
The catch is that Estrada, wanting foreign investors to view the Philippines as having a level playing field, has ruled out injecting any public money.
As the losses pile up, though, Philippine Airlines will be an acid test for this movie-star-turned-politician, who has been in office for six months.
Estrada, 61, may find it hard not to help a friend in need, even if it reinforces the image of the Philippines as a den of crony capitalism.
``It's going to be very tough for Estrada,'' said Christian Monzad, former chairman of the Philippine Election Commission and a consultant to the Lopez Group, a Filipino conglomerate.
``He is very loyal to his friends, and he would like to repay his political debts.''
Estrada's decision will be watched carefully in other Asian capitals, which are grappling with similar issues.
In Indonesia, the government has refused to aid companies with ties to its fallen president, Suharto.
But in Malaysia, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has continued to pump public money into private companies.
In the spartan offices of Philippine Airlines, senior executives insist they can go it alone.
On Dec. 7, they submitted a rehabilitation plan to the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission that would turn PAL from a sprawling national airline into a compact carrier focused on profitable routes.
The airline said it would prune its fleet, which was aggressively expanded in the years leading up to the Asian economic crisis, to 22 planes from 57.
It would cut its domestic routes to 17 from 36 and its international routes to 13 from 26; among the routes lost would be those to Los Angeles and San Francisco.
The loss of routes has eroded some fond traditions here.
Philippine Airlines used to ferry home for the holidays scores of Filipinos who work abroad _ often at cut-rate fares it can no longer afford.
On a recent afternoon, hundreds of Filipinos from North America streamed into Manila via Hong Kong on Cathay Pacific.
``I think we have a very good chance of rehabilitating this airline, although we need the support of the major stakeholders,'' said Jaime Bautista, chief financial officer of Philippine Airlines.
The trouble is, the finances do not add up.
The airline says it needs $150 million in fresh capital to overhaul its operations and begin paying off its debt.
Tan and other shareholders will come up with $90 million, and the rest would come from new investors.
After the collapse of the talks with Cathay Pacific, analysts said they doubted that Philippine Airlines would find a white knight.
Bautista conceded that the carrier was not talking to any other airlines, though he has retained Chase Manhattan Bank to scour the world for potential partners.
In the meantime, Bautista said, he saw nothing wrong with the government throwing the airline a few favors.
``A national flag carrier is very important to a country,'' said Bautista, an amiable man whose punishing work schedule has made him look a good deal older than his 41 years.
``Governments have always been there to help.''
Tan declined to be interviewed.
But Bautista said the airline deserved help because his boss had been treated unfairly by the government.
In truth, Tan's experience is more a case of ending up on the wrong side of history.
Under the Marcos regime, he made a fortune in the cigarette and beer businesses _ in no small part through government tax breaks.
But after Marcos was ousted in 1986, Tan got a chillier reception from his successors, Corazon Aquino and Fidel Ramos.
The now 64-year-old tycoon was hit with a $1 billion tax-evasion lawsuit that was finally dismissed by the Supreme Court in 1996.
And he no longer enjoyed preferential treatment.
None of this stopped Tan from adding to his empire.
He first invested in Philippine Airlines in 1992 and won control in 1996.
But Ramos, who was intent on privatizing the economy, opened the industry to competition, licensing rivals like Air Philippines, Cebu Pacific and Grand Air.
Bautista said the new airlines competed with Philippine Airlines on profitable routes, like flights to the resort island of Cebu.
But the government required the airline to continue serving money-losing ``missionary routes'' _ outposts in this vast archipelago where the planes often fly empty.
Bautista said the government also allowed foreign carriers to increase flights to Manila, enabling them to undercut PAL's fares.
Last week the airline asked the Estrada administration to cut back the flights open to foreign carriers to pre-Ramos levels.
Edgardo Espiritu, the finance secretary, said the government would probably grant the request to reverse the ``unhealthy actions'' of the previous administration.
Magno of the Foundation for Economic Freedom said these protections ``would restore PAL to monopoly status.''
The government is not stopping there.
Espiritu has asked several government-affiliated banks to make bridge loans to Philippine Airlines.
The president of the Philippine National Bank, which is already owed $81 million by the airline, has resisted the idea.
But the government is the bank's largest shareholder, with a 45 percent stake, so he may have little choice.
nn 	Still, it is not clear that cash alone will solve the problem.
Analysts said Philippine Airlines was being choked by a bloated payroll.
The airline has trimmed its ranks from 12,986 employees to 8,589 since May.
But industry experts said it would have to cut that to 2,000 to compete with more efficient carriers like Cathay Pacific or Singapore Airlines.
``When you've got too many employees sitting around, they get into other problems _ they go on strike, they organize unions,'' said Jim Eckes, an aviation consultant at Indoswiss Ltd. in Hong Kong.
Indeed, a strike by employees precipitated the airline's near-death experience in September, when Tan shut down the carrier after its unions refused to accept a drastic cost-cutting plan.
After two weeks of frantic mediation by Estrada, the unions voted to give up a collective-bargaining agreement in return for a 20 percent stake in the airline and three board seats.
The agreement gave Tan some breathing room to cut the payroll.
But Eckes said it would be politically untenable to trim enough workers to make it genuinely competitive.
And hacking away at costs does not erase the carrier's debt load, which, at $2.2 billion, is larger than its estimated break-up value of $1.6 billion.
The airline's creditors _ which include local and foreign banks, plus export-import banks in the United States and Europe _ must approve the rescue plan.
But short of a nasty battle over the airline's planes, they do not have a better option.
Two questions now hang over Philippine Airlines.
The first is whether it is really worth saving.
Some analysts contend that other carriers already serve the most critical domestic and international routes, and that a new airline _ without PAL's baggage _ could soon claim the mantle of flag carrier.
``If you are nonemotional about it, there is no loss,'' said David Sherman, a consultant who specializes in transportation at A.T. Kearney in Hong Kong.
``If you are emotional about it, this is a tragedy.''
The second question is: Can Philippine Airlines be saved with Tan?
In the negotiations with Cathay Pacific, he refused to relinquish control, which ultimately doomed the talks.
Bautista said Tan was willing to hand over day-to-day operations but insisted on retaining control of the board.
Industry experts said no investor would put up money to revive the airline unless it gained control.
Perhaps the one person who could ease Tan out of the cockpit is Estrada.
But in an interview last month, Estrada seemed more intent on praising Tan than on prodding him.
``We have to admire Lucio Tan,'' he said, ``because in spite of losing big money, I was able to prevail upon him to continue losing money.''
And how was the president able to do that?
``He has attained his goal as a billionaire,'' Estrada replied solemnly.
``Maybe before he leaves the world, he wants to do something for his country.''
Making obvious their intention to suppress the fledging China Democratic Party, Communist officials arrested three of its most prominent leaders, Xu Wenli, Qin Yongmin and Wang Youcai.
Colleagues protested and the USA expressed concern, to no avail.
China, defending its action, brought all three to trial.
Because potential defense lawyers were harassed, all three had to defend themselves.
Qin and Wang were charged with inciting subversion, which carries a minimum sentence of five years imprisonment.
Xu faces the more serious charge of subverting state power which can bring a life sentence.
Chinese President Jiang said multiparty democracy will not be allowed.
In October 1988 China signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Perhaps emboldened by that, dissidents pushed for the recognition of a new China Democratic Party.
The government, citing a long-standing policy, said that it would not tolerate another political party.
Three prominent dissidents, one of them Wu Xenli, working to establish the new party were arrested.
They were accused of endangering national security, and faced prison terms of five years.
Prospective defense lawyers were intimidated.
The United States criticized the arrests, and an embassy official was rebuffed when he tried to observe a trial.
With the arrest of political dissidents, including Xu Wenli, Wei Jingsheng, and  Qin Yongman, China went on the offensive against individuals seeking to set up  political parties in that country.
In a speech to the Communist Party, Chinese  President Jiang Zemin denounced any attempts to set up a multi-party system in  China.
The three prominent dissidents all were arrested on charges of subverting  national security.
With government harassment of lawyers, the dissidents have  been unable to secure legan counsel and have had to defend themselves.
The father  of Qin Yongman has sought a delay in his son's trial until legal counsel can be  found.
Chinese officials have finally spoken out on their dealings with dissidents trying to establish the China Democracy Party.
They claimed that Xu Wenli, was suspected of "activities damaging to national security".
The US has denounced China's detaining those "peacefully exercising fundamental freedoms".
Those arrested are expected to be tried under China's vague State Security Law.
Obtaining lawyers for their trials became virtually impossible forcing some of the dissidents to defend themselves.
President Zemin said that economic reforms would continue but would not be a prelude to multiparty democracy.
China did release ailing Liu Nianchun from prison work camp and exiled him to the US.
China's central government ordered the arrest of a prominent democracy campaigner and may use his contacts with exiled Chinese dissidents to charge him with harming national security, a colleague said Wednesday.
Two Beijing police officers spent 30 minutes telling Zha Jianguo to stop trying to set up a political opposition party.
Underscoring the warning, they said his colleague, Xu Wenli, won't be released soon and may be charged for having links to ``reactionary groups,'' Zha said.
Xu and another influential dissident, Qin Yongmin, were arrested Monday night in police raids in two cities that delivered the sternest blow so far to a five-month campaign to establish the China Democracy Party and challenge the ruling Communist Party's monopoly on power.
Qin was arrested for plotting to overthrow the government, a crime that could land him in jail for life.
A third Democracy Party advocate, Wang Youcai, already in custody for a month, was also formally arrested Monday although his family has not been informed of the charges.
Zha, who helped Xu organize would-be party members in Beijing and the nearby port of Tianjin, said police officers told him Xu's arrest was ordered by the central government, not Beijing police.
He took the police reference to ``reactionary groups'' to mean exiled dissidents in the United States.
Under China's vague State Security Law, such links may also be punishable by up to life in prison.
Zha pledged to work with dissidents in China and exiles in the United States to campaign ``to save Xu Wenli.''
On Wednesday, 190 dissidents from around the country demanded in an open letter that the government release Xu, Qin and Wang Youcai, saying the arrests run counter to U.N. human rights treaties China has signed over the past 14 months.
The authorities ``are deceiving and cheating international public opinion while on the other hand they are suppressing and persecuting domestic political dissidents,'' said the letter faxed to foreign news agencies.
In Washington, White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said the United States deplored the detention and arrests of Xu and Qin.
``We believe the peaceful political activities of this kind and other forms of peaceful expression that they've been involved in are fundamental human rights that should be protected by all governments,'' Lockart said.
``We call on the Chinese government to assure the protection in these cases of Mr. Xu and Mr. Qin.''
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said U.S. officials conveyed their concerns to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and urged that Xu be released immediately.
U.S. officials received confirmation Wednesday that Xu is being detained on suspicion of ``having conducted activities damaging to China's national security,'' Rubin said.
He said he had no information from Chinese authorities about Qin or Wang.
Two other democracy party supporters taken into custody in central Wuhan city along with Qin _ Chen Zhonghe and Xiao Shichang _ were released Wednesday morning, said He Xintong, Xu Wenli's wife.
She added that police questioned the pair about the party as well as Qin's human rights monitoring organizations.
Qin and Xu are towering figures in China's persecuted dissident community.
Their activism dates to the seminal Democracy Wall movement of the 1970s.
Wang was a student leader in 1989's influential Tiananmen Square democracy movement.
All have spent time in prison, Xu for 12 years, much of it in solitary confinement.
Xu's wife said she does not know where he is being held and, in her 20-year experience with the authorities, believes they are unlikely to tell her.
Released in 1993, Xu picked up his campaigning for political change soon after his parole ended last year.
He has tried to use China's nascent legal system and the international treaties it signed to push for reform.
``My husband is innocent and there's nothing he can be criticized for,'' said his wife, He Xintong.
``They're going to have to expend a lot of effort to make him a criminal.''
China's government said Thursday that two prominent dissidents arrested this week are suspected of endangering national security _ the clearest sign yet Chinese leaders plan to quash a would-be opposition party.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao refused to specify what laws were broken or how Xu Wenli and Qin Yongmin endangered the state.
A third leading advocate of the China Democracy Party who has been in custody for a month, Wang Youcai, was accused of ``inciting the overthrow of the government,'' the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported.
All three men could face up to life in prison if convicted of the harshest measures under China's vague state security law.
The ruling Communist Party has resorted to the law to silence dissent since it went into effect last year.
The arrests of Xu and Qin at their homes Monday night and the accusations against them and Wang were the sharpest action Chinese leaders have taken since dissidents began pushing to set up and legally register the China Democracy Party in June.
Xu and Qin were ``suspected of involvement in activities endangering state security'' and their ``behavior breached relevant provisions of the criminal laws of the People's Republic of China,'' Zhu said at a twice-weekly briefing.
Police in Hangzhou city notified Wang's wife Wednesday that charges have already been submitted to prosecutors, bringing him a step closer to trial, the Information Center said.
Xu and Qin are influential figures in the dissident community, having started their campaign for change 20 years ago in the seminal Democracy Wall movement.
Wang was a student leader in the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations.
Both have served time in prison.
Xu spent 12 years in jail, much of it in solitary confinement.
Since dissidents began organizing and trying to legally register the China Democracy Party, police have harassed and briefly detained more than two dozen members, but until now the government had not leveled such politically charged allegations.
The Communist Party has never allowed another political party to form since it took power in 1949.
In Washington on Wednesday, White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said the United States deplored the arrests and said the dissidents' peaceful political activities were fundamental human rights that all governments should protect.
U.S. officials conveyed their concerns to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and urged that Xu and Qin be released immediately.
Zhu criticized the United States for condemning the arrests, saying that ``no country, including the United States, should interfere in China's internal affairs.''
China in October signed a key U.N. treaty on civil and political rights that guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of association.
It was the 17th international human rights treaty China has signed.
Zhu told reporters there was ``absolutely no contradiction at all'' between China's support for these treaties and its arrests of the two dissidents.
With attorneys locked up, harassed or plain scared, two prominent dissidents will defend themselves against charges of subversion Thursday in China's highest-profile dissident trials in two years.
Qin Yongmin's and Wang Youcai's families were running out of options Wednesday to help the pair, leading organizers of a budding opposition political party.
Qin's family pleaded for a postponement at Wuhan's Intermediate People's Court, but court officials denied the request.
Police have detained one lawyer and threatened another, and subtler pressures have been used on others, family members said.
Given the interference, Wang Youcai's wife assumes he will be convicted.
``Whether he has a lawyer or not, whatever he says, the government has already decided,'' Hu Jiangxia said.
Qin and Wang will be tried separately, in cities 500 kilometers (300 miles) apart and in proceedings attended only by family and a few observers selected by the courts.
Qin, 44, and Wang, 31, are accused of inciting the subversion of state power, apparently for helping to organize the China Democracy Party.
They face from 10 years to life imprisonment if convicted under the harshest aspects of the law.
By moving against Qin, Wang and the China Democracy Party, the ruling Communist Party appears to be signaling its determination to crush challenges to its monopoly on power.
Authorities have detained or questioned more than 30 people associated with the party in a 17-day-old crackdown.
Qin, a democracy campaigner for 20 years, and Wang, a student leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, are among the most active and influential members of China's dissident community.
A third prominent member of the dissident community, Xu Wenli, was also arrested in the crackdown, but not yet charged.
To prevent displays of solidarity outside Wang's trial, police have detained at least ten dissidents in the eastern city of Hangzhou, a Hong Kong-based rights group reported.
The Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China said many more are missing and believed to be in custody.
To prosecute Wang, authorities violated the minimal rights guaranteed suspects under Chinese law and ignored court orders, his wife said.
``Even the judge asked me to hire a lawyer, but while I was doing this, some people were doing things to stop me,'' Hu Jiangxia said.
During one meeting with a potential defense attorney, a police official stormed in and said, ```Don't do anything for them.
Don't take this case.
Whoever takes the case, you can't win,''' Hu recounted.
Four law firms refused to take Qin's case, his brother Qin Xiaoguang said.
The Information Center said one lawyer who initially agreed to represent Qin on Monday went missing for four hours and then called Qin's family to withdraw.
Dispirited by the harsh treatment, Qin's family argued over whether to attend the trial.
Qin Xiaoguang said he and his father have decided to stay away to protest the unfairness, but another brother will go.
Three dissidents from northeastern China sent an open letter to China's legislature and the Supreme People's Court appealing for fair trials, the Information Center said.
It added that authorities violated China's own laws by not ensuring Wang and Qin have adequate representation.
The letter was the latest in a string of petitions demonstrating the appeal of both Wang and Qin and the idea of the China Democracy Party.
Since Wang publicly announced in June that he and others in Hangzhou were setting up the party, dissidents in at least 14 provinces and cities have set up party branches.
Authorities have refused their applications to register the party as required by law.
Wang and Qin are the most well-known dissidents China has put on trial since Tiananmen Square student leader Wang Dan in 1996.
He was convicted of subversion and served less than two of an 11-year sentence.
In return for his release, he agreed to go into exile.
China released a respected, but ailing labor rights campaigner from a prison work camp Sunday and immediately sent him into exile in the United States.
Releasing Liu Nianchun appeared to be an attempt by the government to blunt international criticism over Monday's upcoming trial of prominent dissident Xu Wenli.
Xu is the third leading member of a would-be opposition political party put on trial for subversion in a three-week crackdown that has seen 30 dissidents arrested or interrogated.
Although pleased that Liu Nianchun was free, human rights groups decried the Chinese government's timing as manipulative.
``We don't want to give any credit to the Chinese government for this cynical game it is playing,'' said Xiao Qiang, director of New York-based Human Rights in China.
After 3 1/2 years in prison, Liu was taken from the Tuanhe labor camp on the outskirts of Beijing, driven to the capital's airport and put on a Canadian Air flight, ultimately bound for New York, his mother and brother said.
Accompanying Liu into exile was his wife, Chu Hailan, and their 11-year-old daughter, the family said.
Liu Nianchun's release follows the same pattern China used in freeing its two most famous dissidents, Wei Jingsheng in Nov. 1997 and Wang Dan in April.
Authorities released Liu on medical parole, exactly five months before the end of his prison term, provided he go into exile, Liu Qing said.
Liu Nianchun, 50, has been in ill-health for at least two years.
In an exam authorities finally agreed to provide last month, doctors discovered Liu had tumors in his mouth, stomach and bowels, Liu Qing said.
Like Wang and Wei, the United States and other Western governments have lobbied China to release Liu.
Chinese leaders have been forcing well-known dissidents into exile throughout the 1990s, finding that once abroad they lose their influence among dissidents at home.
In the only official comment on the release, the Xinhua News Agency reported that judicial departments took into account Liu's health and behavior in the labor camp in approving his parole for medical treatment.
``I am very happy for Liu Nianchun, but at the same time sending people directly from prison into exile is a type of human rights violation and persecution,'' Liu Qing said in a telephone interview from his home in New York's Brooklyn borough.
Liu Nianchun was one of the most respected figures in the fractured, persecuted dissident community.
His more than 3 1/2 years in prisons and labor camps was a sad illustration of the way China's Communist Party rulers punish people they deem a threat.
Liu was imprisoned three times in the past 17 years.
His last arrest came after he signed a petition calling for labor rights in May 1995.
Liu was never put on trial.
Fourteen months passed before his wife, Chu Hailan, first learned of his fate and whereabouts: a three-year spell in a labor camp in the frigid, remote northeast.
His term was the maximum police may impose on criminal suspects without trial.
Labor camp officials later extended Liu's sentence by a year for trying to escape, a charge Chu claimed was fabricated.
Inside the labor camp, Liu once started a hunger strike to protest his treatment.
He was beaten with cattle prods and confined to a room of 2 square meters (2 square yards) where he could only sit or stand.
His wife fearlessly endured police harassment, beatings and detentions in campaigning for his release.
Chu was dragged away and hit by security forces when she tried to hand a letter to U.N. human rights chief Mary Robinson outside a Beijing hotel in September.
In response to criticism from home and abroad, Chinese officials broke their silence Wednesday to defend their arrest this week of a prominent dissident who was trying to form an opposition political party.
``Xu Wenli is suspected of involvement in activities damaging to national security and has violated relevant criminal codes of the People's Republic of China,'' said a statement from the Foreign Ministry, which on Tuesday declined to comment on the arrest.
The sudden arrest on Monday night of Xu, as well as several other activists involved with him in trying to form the China Democratic Party, set off strong protests from human rights groups, other Chinese dissidents and Washington.
``We view his detention for peacefully exercising fundamental freedoms guaranteed by international human rights instruments as a serious step in the wrong direction,'' State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said in Washington on Tuesday.
&UR;  &LR;  U.S. officials in Beijing urged the government to release Xu and asked for clarification as to the exact nature of his crime.
China signed the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights with great fanfare in October, and Xu's arrest is seen by human rights groups as a test of the nation's commitment to its tenets.
Dissidents in and out of China rose to Xu's defense, with more than a dozen activists around the country announcing that they would begin fasts in support of Xu and another leader of the China Democratic Party, Qin Yongmin, who was arrested in his home in Wuhan on Monday.
Almost 200 dissidents signed a letter to the Chinese government protesting the detentions, said the Information Center for Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong.
Three other Democratic Party organizers were also detained on Monday, although two of them were released early Wednesday.
But the two more prominent dissidents, Xu and Qin, are likely to face a much longer haul since both have been charged with ``criminal acts.''
Xu's wife, He Xintong, said Wednesday night that she had still not been informed of the specific charge against her husband, although she surmised from the aggressive behavior of the arresting officers that the sentence ``could be long.''
Qin's family was told that he was charged with ``plotting to subvert the government,'' a crime that for serious offenses commands sentences of three years to life.
In the Chinese criminal code, this charge comes under a grab-bag section called ``threatening state security,'' which makes almost any political activity that questions or hampers the authority of the Communist Party illegal, from ``violent or nonviolent activities aimed at overthrowing the government authorities,'' to ``activities designed to change the basic nature of the state.''
Xu's and Qin's trouble almost certainly stems from their efforts to gain recognition for the China Democratic Party, a loose network of pro-democracy activists in more than a dozen cities around China that was formed this year.
In the last six months they have become increasingly aggressive and defiant in their attempts to register the party with the government, submitting repeated applications even after local authorities had declared the concept of an opposition party illegal.
They say the Chinese Constitution does not specifically forbid the formation of new political parties, although there have been no new parties since the founding of the People's Republic in 1949.
In fact, the by-laws of the China Democratic Party are fairly tame; they carefully acknowledge the central role of the Communist Party, but also support free speech and free elections for public officials.
``My husband thought the time was right to begin working to form a new party, since China recently signed the covenant on human rights,'' Ms. He said.
In September, a few Democratic Party members got some slightly encouraging signals from local governments, which initially accepted their applications to form a social organization to develop a party.
But in recent weeks, as organizers like Xu became more insistent and defiant, harassment by the police increased.
``All this past week we felt something was going to happen,'' Ms. He said.
``It seemed that anyone who came to visit us was later detained for a while.
And there have been a lot more cars from the Public Security Bureau parked outside than is usual.''
One leader of a suppressed new political party will be tried on Dec. 17 on a charge of colluding with foreign enemies of China ``to incite the subversion of state power,'' according to court documents given to his wife on Monday.
The decision to try the leader, Wang Youcai, a founder of the China Democracy Party, with unusual speed suggests how serious the Communist authorities are in their campaign to destroy the fledgling party and silence dissidents who had begun to speak out over the last year.
The charges that Wang faces, in a trial that will almost certainly be secret and quick, could bring a sentence of five years or more.
Wang, 32, has been imprisoned in his home city, Hangzhou in eastern China, for a month, but was not formally arrested until Nov. 30.
On that day two prominent dissidents, both promoters of the new party, were detained.
One, Qin Yongmin, 45, of the central city of Wuhan, and the other, Xu Wenli, 55, of Beijing, are being held on suspicion of subversive activities.
Detailed charges have not been filed.
Wang was a student leader in the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
After the army had crushed the movement, Wang was arrested and served two years in prison.
Qin and Xu became known as democracy advocates in the late 1970s.
Qin was imprisoned for eight years.
In 1993 he was put in a labor camp for two years.
Xu spent 12 years in prison.
When President Clinton visited in the spring, Wang announced the formation of the Democracy Party.
He and other dissidents hoped that China's new friendship with the United States and its decision to sign a global covenant on political and civil rights would give them room to promote political alternatives.
After Clinton returned home Wang was detained, warned and released, only to be re-arrested as authorities began what now appears to be a major crackdown on dissent.
Monday, Wang's wife, Hu Jiangxia, was handed the bill of prosecution, according to the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong.
Wang is charged with helping draft a party manifesto that states, in part, ``Only by establishing an opposition party can we be rid of this despotism.''
That is cited as grounds for the subversion charge, the information center said.
In addition to detailing Wang's organizing activities, the prosecutors charge that he colluded with enemies of the state abroad, making his crime far more serious under Chinese law.
He used e-mail to send 18 copies of the party's founding documents abroad, met with a member of a subversive foreign organization and received money from foreign sources to buy a computer, the indictment reportedly says.
A Chinese dissident fleeing a new round of arrests of democracy activists in Shanghai arrived here Wednesday and announced that he and other opponents of the Chinese government plan a demonstration Thursday at the United Nations to protest the crackdown.
The dissident, Yao Zhenxian, who was released in April from a Chinese labor camp, is a leader of the China Democracy Party, which was formed in June during President Clinton's visit to China.
Speaking through an interpreter at Kennedy International Airport, Yao, 44, said little about why he had left Shanghai, except that he and his younger brother, Yao Zhenxiang, 38, had been sent to a labor camp in 1996 on a ``trumped-up charge'' of publishing pornography.
The younger Yao, who is also a prominent figure in the China Democracy Party, is scheduled for release in April.
Last week the Chinese government arrested 10 members and sympathizers of the China Democracy Party, one of whom, Wang Youcai, is to go on trial Dec. 17.
``The Chinese government feels it expanded too quickly,'' Yao said at the airport, referring to his party.
Washington gave Yao a special visa, which expires in February.
Dr. Wang Bingzhang, 50, an adviser to the overseas committee of the party, said later that Yao had left China for personal and political reasons.
``They were scared all the time,'' he said, referring to Yao's wife, Yu Yingzhang, and daughter, Yao Yiting, 14, who accompanied him.
``The family had a terrible life, especially the daughter.
Secret agents followed them all the time.''
The family trading business, which was 12 years old, was shuttered by the government in 1996, said Wang, a former surgeon in Beijing, ``so they had no way of living.''
In addition, after Yao made organizational trips to several provinces, democracy activists urged him to go abroad, Wang said.
``They wanted him to tell the truth about what is really happening in China and to call on the whole world to pay attention,'' Wang said.
Beatrice Laroche, liaison at the United Nations for Human Rights in China, a New York-based group, said the China Democracy Party was a growing presence in some of China's most populous provinces, including Sichuan.
``But their most vocal leaders have all recently been detained,'' she added.
Ms. Laroche said the Yao brothers, especially the younger man, won prominence by helping to finance predecessors of the China Democracy Party with money from the family business before it was closed by the government.
Protesting the lack of a defense lawyer, the father of a prominent dissident is to seek a delay in his son's subversion trial, scheduled to start on Thursday in the central city of Wuhan.
The defendant is Qin Yongmin, 45, a democracy advocate who has spent 10 years in prison and labor camps and has recently promoted an alternative, non-Communist political party.
In a telephone interview Wednesday evening, his father, Qin Qinguo, 76, said that before the trial begins, he plans to hand the court a written plea for postponement.
If the plea is ignored, he said he will walk out.
``I wouldn't be able to stand it,'' the father, a retired steelworker, said, citing his frail health and high blood pressure.
Under China's code of criminal procedure, a defendant has the right to a defense lawyer.
But in this case, the elder Qin said, some lawyers he approached declined to take the case, while others were warned by security officials not to get involved.
The father said he did not agree with his son's political tactics but now he felt he had no choice but to protest his treatment.
Qin Yongmin was arrested on Nov. 30, only hours after his mother died of a stroke.
``He wasn't even allowed to attend the funeral,'' Qin Qinguo said.
``And now he's not allowed to find a lawyer.''
On Thursday morning, a few hundred miles to the east in the city of Hangzhou, Wang Youcai, 33, is to go on trial on similar charges of inciting subversion.
He, too, has no defense lawyer.
Wang was a leader of student demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989 and served two years in prison after they were put down by military force.
As the founder of the suppressed new political party, the China Democracy Party, he publicly announced its charter in June during President Clinton's visit to China.
Scores of people around the country began to champion the new party, hopeful that closer ties between China and the United States, and China's signing of the international covenant on political and civil rights, would mean a looser political climate.
But the party was soon declared illegal and many adherents were detained, at least temporarily.
Wang now faces charges that could land him in prison for five years or more.
A third veteran dissident and promoter of the new party, Xu Wenli, has been detained for weeks in Beijing and is expected to face similar subversion charges.
In the last two days, at least 10 Democracy Party members or supporters in the Hangzhou area have been detained by the police and others have had their phone lines cut, reported the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China, based in Hong Kong.
The separate trials of two prominent democracy advocates for inciting subversion of the state opened Thursday morning, with the families of both defendants protesting their inability to hire defense lawyers.
The trial in the eastern city of Hangzhou of Wang Youcai, 32, founder of the China Democracy Party, which is now suppressed, was in session for just two hours and 10 minutes.
It appears to be finished, although the court did not announce a decision or say when it would.
``I don't know what happens from here,'' said Wang's wife, Hu Jiangxia, who was one of three relatives allowed to attend the trial.
``I don't hold much hope,'' she added in a telephone interview.
Wang, who spent two years in prison after the 1989 student demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, was accused of organizing a political party that sought to overturn Communist Party rule and of colluding with foreign enemies of the state.
He could face five years or more in prison.
Since all the lawyers his family approached were intimidated by security agents, Ms. Hu said, Wang tried to mount his own defense Thursday morning after prosecutors laid out their case.
But the judge frequently interrupted him and cut him off after half an hour, saying he was not responding to the specific facts of the case, she added.
Wang argued that his activities were legal under China's constitution and under an international covenant on political rights that China has signed, Ms. Hu said.
In the central city of Wuhan, the trial on similar charges of Qin Yongmin, 45, a veteran dissident, also continued for something over two hours.
It will apparently be continued, said Qin's father, Qin Qingguo, since the session ended after the prosecution presented its charges.
In that case, too, prospective lawyers had been intimidated or detained, family members said.
The elderly father's request to the court Thursday morning for a postponement was ignored, so he and one of the defendant's brothers stayed outside the court building in protest, leaving another brother inside.
``We didn't feel there was any reason to observe the trial because if Qin Yongmin did not have a defense attorney, then as far as we were concerned the proceedings were meaningless,'' the father said by telephone.
The U.S. Embassy asked to observe the trials.
When an embassy official arrived at the court in Hangzhou Thursday morning, he was told that there were no seats available and instead waited outside, greeting Ms. Hu when she emerged, shaken, from the brief trial.
In a pointed speech delivered to Communist Party members in the Great Hall of the People, President Jiang Zemin made clear Friday that China's economic reforms were not a prelude to Western-style multiparty democracy and that those who challenged the party's supremacy would be quashed.
Officially, the speech was intended to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Communist Party meeting that marked the beginning of the reforms.
But it also provided a vigorous, if indirect, defense of the government's recent decision to try three of the country's most prominent democracy activists on criminal charges for their efforts to organize an opposition political party.
The trials of Wang Youcai and Qin Youming opened on Thursday.
They are accused of inciting subversion of the state, charges that carry a minimum prison sentence of five years on conviction, although neither trial has come to a verdict.
And Friday the family of China's most senior dissident, Xu Wenli, another organizer of the opposition party, was told that he would stand trial on Monday, facing an even more serious charge of subverting state power, which could bring a sentence of life imprisonment.
Xu has been detained since Nov. 30, after the police raided his house and confiscated documents about the new opposition group, the China Democratic Party.
While vowing to move ahead with economic reforms, Jiang's speech was more conservative politically than others he has made this year.
Again and again he invoked Communist Party dogma, using phrases rarely uttered in the last year, like the ``four cardinal principles.''
Those state that the leadership of the Communist Party, adherence to the socialist path and the upholding of Mao Zedong Thought and of Marxism-Leninism must serve as the foundation for the country.
During President Clinton's state visit in the summer, the world saw President Jiang, agile international political leader, in action.
Friday he was once again General Secretary Jiang, Communist Party stalwart.
China's current political system ``must not be shaken, weakened or discarded at any time,'' Jiang said, adding, ``The Western mode of political systems must never be copied.''
Later he said, ``We must be vigilant against infiltration, subversive activities and separatist activities of international and domestic hostile forces.''
China must ``fight against factors disrupting social stability and nip them in the bud,'' he said.
Jiang's remarks on these topics echoed points made two weeks ago by Li Peng, the former prime minister who now heads the National People's Congress, in a rare interview with the German business newspaper Handelsblatt.
Li is usually associated with the more conservative faction of the party.
But Friday, as China is facing harsh criticism from human rights groups and Western governments over its treatment of the China Democratic Party's leaders, the same admonitions came directly from Jiang.
Jiang also said China should not rely too heavily on foreign countries to boost its economic development, and he acknowledged that the party had made some ``mistakes'' that had left citizens dissatisfied.
Presumably that was a reference to the millions of layoffs caused by a shift toward a market economy, and to the resulting demonstrations that have become commonplace in smaller Chinese cities.
But it was, at heart, a back-to-basics talk, a reminder that even though many of China's citizens wear tailored suits and tote cellular phones, and even though its billboard-lined thoroughfares resemble streets in the West, the country remains a one-party dictatorship.
Earlier this year, the founding members of the China Democratic Party, a small, loose network of activists from all over the country, hoped that there might be room for political opposition.
Heartened by the relatively open discourse that surrounded the Clinton visit and later by China's decision to sign the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the dissidents have repeatedly tried to register their fledgling party as a government-recognized social organization.
In the last two months, the official response has moved quickly from neglect, to polite rebuff, to detention, to this week's trials.
It is unclear what will happen to the three men being tried or the many other Democratic Party members who have been detained as they have sought to protest the criminal proceedings.
At the trials of Wang in Hang-zhou and Qin in Wuhan, neither man was represented by a lawyer, although allowed by Chinese law, because prospective lawyers were intimidated or detained by local officials, their families said.
In a two-and-a-half-hour court session Friday, Wang defended himself.
No defense has yet been presented for Qin.
Xu, who will go on trial on Monday in Beijing, has been given a court-appointed lawyer, his wife said.
Xu has already spent more than 10 years in prison.
His indictment accuses him of organizing the China Democratic Party, accepting money from abroad, calling for independent trade unions and making subversive statements in interviews with foreign news organizations.